---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "In my talk at TypeCon last Friday I outlined some of the history on readability.
  The basic thing I found out is that the notion of readability as ease of reading
  was introduced by Matthew Luckiesh, who did a series of scientific tests on readability,
  with the aid of Linotype, in the late 1930s. His ideas are explained in his book
  with Frank Moss, Reading as a Visual Task (1942). \r\n\r\nThe distinction I believe
  entered into the English of designers through the influence of people from Linotype.
  \r\n\r\nThe key thing to understand about the distinction is that \"readability\"
  is not a measure of performance, such as speed or comprehension, but rather of the
  psycho-physical costs of performance. In other words, \"readability\" refers to
  the effort required for reading, or the fatigue produced by reading. \r\n\r\nLuckiesh
  measured reading fatigue a numbers of ways, but the most sensitive of these was
  by increase in spontaneous blink rate. Blink rate is suppressed for the task of
  reading, but that suppression breaks down increasingly as time passes, and for less
  readable material.\r\n\r\nBlink rate as a measure of reading fatigue was attacked
  by researcher Miles Tinker, and as a result Luckiesh's work was largely lost.However,
  a 1994 review of the dispute by fatigue researcher John Stern concluded that Luckiesh
  and Moss were right all along.\r\n\r\nThe most important lesson of Luckiesh's work
  is, I believe, that to scientifically understand what typography is best for reading
  under what situations requires more than one measure, and these different measures
  at times come into conflict with one another.   \r\n\r\nThere is a lot more to be
  said, and I hope that Luckiesh's work will now become part of the discourse of both
  designers and researchers. Those interested can get an initial taste in my article
  that has just appeared in the July 2011 issue of [[http://www.printinghistory.org/publications/printing-history.php|Printing
  History]]. \r\n\r\nps. I'm starting this as a new thread instead of continuing [[http://typophile.com/node/83097|this
  one.]] "
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Is that what all the hullabaloo of your Great Readability Scandal was all
    about \u2014 Luckiesh & Moss?\r\n\r\nWell, why didn\u2019t you *say* so? \r\n\r\nSomewhere
    around here I have a transcript of the original study L&M did for Mergenthaler
    Linotype Co., ca. 1938. There was a brief dossier included in C.H.&nbsp;Griffith\u2019s
    papers at the U of KY, Lexington, and I have a copy in my CHG-WAD research/collection.\r\n\r\nIt
    includes some comments and correspondence between he and Dwiggins (to whom CHG
    sent the study for review). As I recall, both men were a bit underwhelmed by the
    report and the conclusions. \r\n\r\nIn fact, I seem to recall that their discussion
    of the matter echoed many of the same points and perspectives that y\u2019all
    have gone \u2019round and \u2019round about here, <em>ad nauseum</em> \u2014 except,
    70+ years ago. \r\n\r\n<em>Plus \xE7a change, plus c\u2019est la m\xEAme chose.</em>
    At some point, I\u2019ll have to dig out that file and find some juicy quotes
    for you."
  created: '2011-07-12 00:04:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the notion of readability as ease of reading was introduced by
    Matthew Luckiesh\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nWasn't it first introduced by educational psychologists
    measuring reading ability as a purely textual phenomenon, i.e. correlating length
    of words and sentences in text to reading ability, indexed in terms of age? By
    so doing they could recommend the appropriate books for different aged children
    by analyzing sentence and word length, irrespective of typography.\r\n\r\nThis
    meaning of readability is still widely understood today.\r\n\r\nTypographers and
    graphic designers understand readability to mean something else again, i.e. a
    well laid-out document that is not only easy to read at the level of \"immersive
    text\", but also easy to understand and engaging in terms of typographic hierarchy.
    A magazine page with many different elements, including pictures and diagrams,
    is thus readable.\r\n\r\nThat meaning is supported by this:\r\nhttp://www.readability.com/\r\n\r\nHowever,
    Luckiesh's eye-blink tests (or whatever) would probably not contradict what this
    app is doing."
  created: '2011-07-12 02:47:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, in 1939 Luckiesh and Moss published their paper \u201CThe Visibility
    and Readability of Printed Matter.\u201D <em>Journal of Applied Psychology</em>
    Volume 23, Number 6. It is possible that this is the report Griffith and Dwiggins
    reviewed.\r\n\r\nHere is how Luckiesh and Moss start their section on readability:
    \u201C<em>Theoretical Considerations</em>. The term \"readability\" is used herein
    to express the integral effect of physical factors which influence ease of reading.
    As such, it includes a consideration of all factors which influence visibility
    as well as certain other factors whose influence is not appraisable by so-called
    visibility measurements. Among the latter are typographical factors such as length
    of line, leading, margins and others. It will be noted, however, that the concept
    of readability is not extended to include a consideration of the comprehensibility
    of the reading matter. In general, a distinction is made between visibility and
    readability since the criteria for appraising these characteristics do not necessarily
    involve and measure all possible factors. For example, the visibility of a given
    line of print is not appreciably altered by the proximity of adjacent lines of
    print in practical typography while it is a matter of common experience that the
    ease of reading is markedly influenced by the space (leading) between successive
    lines. Nevertheless, in many cases visibility and readability are closely related.
    It will be noted that we do not use the term \"legibility\" which has been widely
    used in connection with reading matter, generally without clear definition and
    perhaps never with precise definition. Having applied the term, visibility, rather
    generally to other visual objects and tasks it was logical to apply it to reading.
    We then adopted the term, readability, as applying to ease of reading, which includes
    effects of reading upon the reader.\u201D"
  created: '2011-07-12 04:09:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've always been impressed by your Uncle's book\u2014one of the few to give
    full credit to 19th century type designers, avoiding the modernist myth.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-12 05:25:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill \u2014 My <em>plus \xE7a change</em> comment was directed at the kind
    of polarities \u2014 the touting, on one hand, and the pooh-poohing, on the other
    \u2014 that I read in many of the exchanges on the subject here and which are
    reflected in CHG/WAD\u2019s lukewarm review of L&M\u2019s initial study for Linotype
    70+ years ago. Not the results of the study, per se. I have no particular comment
    on the nature or validity of Luckiesh\u2019s work, in general or vis-a-vis his
    contemporaries and successors.\r\n\r\nI have no doubt that some at Mergenthaler
    found the partnership with Luckiesh and Moss to be worthwhile (note the reference
    to \u201Cexecutives\u201D in what I quote from CHG below \u2014 of which Gage
    was essentially one). And I\u2019m not implying that it wasn\u2019t valuable.
    It may likely have been a great advancement in this area of research. \r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    just reporting, historically, that CHG and WAD (the men in the trenches) were
    underwhelmed by the initial study.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t have time or inclination
    to present the totality of this dossier right now. I\u2019ll be happy to mail
    photocopies to you and Peter.\r\n\r\nHowever, for the sake of context in this
    conversation, here is [most of] the summary that CHG provides in his intro to
    the dossier:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Early in 1938 executives of the Linotype Company
    became interested in the work of Dr. Matthew Luckiesh, director of the Nela Park
    (Cleveland) Laboratory of the General Electric Company, in the field of ophthalmic
    research, illumination, and in general the science of seeing. [. . . ]\r\n\r\nDr.
    Luckiesh and his associate, Frank K. Moss, were commissioned to make a series
    of studies of the anatomy of letters, particularly in relation to what constitutes
    the optimum of legibility in their configuration, degree of boldness, and thus
    contributing to the ease and speed of reading. It was also expected that in their
    researches they might be able to come up with something tangible in the way [of]
    proven formulae which would bear on the Dwiggins theory of a numerical process
    for \u201Cletter fitting\u201D as an aid for the designer of types.\r\n\r\nThere
    is presented here the Report of Luckiesh and Moss to the Company on the result
    of nearly two years of research on the subject assigned to them.\r\n\r\nAs a whole,
    the result was disappointing. This was due, perhaps, to their unfamiliarity with
    printing, the customs of printers, the esthetic considerations which play an important
    role in the practice of typography, and lack of understanding of the basic principles
    of type designing which contribute to the ease and pleasure of reading. Their
    Conclusions (page 11) were weighted with theories so abstract and impractical
    in their broad application to the subject under consideration as to become of
    little value in our work, and the research project was discontinued. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat
    last paragraph will undoubtedly have a familiar ring ;-)\r\n\r\nI think what CHG
    and WAD reacted to the most was the over-reaching nature of the conclusions that
    L&M presented as the result of this one avenue of research. \r\n\r\nBTW, the study
    was entitled \u201CBoldness as a Factor in Type-Design and Typography\u201D and
    studied the results for four weights of Memphis. (The graph you show above was
    likely derived from this same study, although the typescript I have provides only
    tables, no graphs.)\r\n\r\nIn their introduction, L&M state <em>\u201CThe specific
    objective of the present investigation is the determination of the optimum degree
    of boldness for the Memphis family of 10-point types.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nBut then,
    by the end, from L&M\u2019s Summary and Conclusions:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>3. The
    design of a type of optimum readability may now be guided with reliability and
    exactness by measurements of visibility within a range which is now fairly definitively
    known.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe nature of this conclusion should also sound familiar.
    An exaggerated paraphrase: \u201CWe have identified the best performance from
    a narrow range of options, and now we can tell type designers how they can create
    the definitive typeface for optimum readability.\u201D\r\n\r\nIn his endnote to
    the report in this dossier, CHG comments:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>NOTE \u2014 The whole
    of this report merely confirms, in technical jargon, what has been known and practised
    by type specialists for the past three centuries. A simple \u201Cdiscovery\u201D
    of the obvious. No action was taken on the recommendations.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAgain,
    the tone should sound familiar.\r\n\r\nFollowing this is the correspondence from
    WAD. But that will have to wait for another morning.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-12 14:01:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kent, haven't you heard\u2014we are just on the threshold of discovering,
    in the very near future, for the first time, How Things Really Work.\r\nNow where
    is that damn Higgs boson?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThe cost of each Apollo flight, in
    2011 dollars, was almost $10 billion.\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-12 15:20:44'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Kent, I find the Griffith response surprising.\r\n\r\nHere is what Harry
    L Gage had to say in his introduction to <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em> in
    1942:\r\n\r\n\u201C[\u2026] the research partnership of Luckiesh and Moss has
    made substantial progress toward <em>the ideal alliance of scientist and technician
    in the graphic arts in the study of reading material</em>. [my emphasis] It has
    been highly interesting and instructive to serve as their lay collaborator in
    a series of researches in readability which have developed some of the material
    for this book.\r\n\r\nThe industrialist\u2019s impatience for mass action and
    quick results has been restrained by the demonstration that researches in this
    field must be thorough and deliberate; that first things must come first; that
    the awesome number of factors which influence readability require years of extended
    study before conclusive judgments and ratings of material can be attained.\r\n\r\nSeveral
    years of work, growing out of three decades of researches in seeing, have been
    summarized by Dr. Luckiesh thus: \u201CFirst we have had to develop devices, criteria
    and techniques which made it possible to study reading material and readability
    by means of measurements.\u201D This book amplifies and verifies this statement.
    It substantiates the fundamental soundness of the methods which Luckiesh and Moss
    have adapted. It should become a basis for the further measurement of the many
    variants of types, printing materials, graphic techniques and seeing conditions
    which make the visual task of reading so complex and relatively unexplored.\u201D\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the \u201C[w]e have identified the best performance from a narrow range of options,
    and now we can tell type designers how they can create the definitive typeface
    for optimum readability\u201D statement that you quote seems uncharacteristic
    of Luckiesh and Moss. A piece with the identical title \u201CBoldness as a Factor
    in Type-Design and Typography\u201D was published in the <em>Journal of Applied
    Psychology</em> in 1940 (Volume 24, Number 2, pages 170\u2013183. It doesn\u2019t
    contain that statement.\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-12 16:03:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: reading...
  created: '2011-07-12 18:12:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I thoroughly enjoyed your talk at TypeCon, and have been reading your
    article in the American <em>Printing History</em> journal. I think you've done
    a good bit of history, most particularly in discerning the processes by which
    Luckiesh and Moss had a lasting impact in the typographic community, while Tinker
    had a lasting impact in the psychological community.\r\n\r\nI think, in light
    of Luckiesh and Moss, we do need to be very careful how we describe readability.
    The phrase that your Uncle Ben used is accurate, if one takes into account Luckiesh
    and Moss, but easily misleading otherwise. I think the word \u2018ease\u2019 is
    unfortunate, because it may suggest a cognitive ease independent of fatigue, rather
    than relative to fatigue, i.e. an inherent ease by which the same word or short
    sequence of words might be judged more \u2018readable\u2019 in two different typefaces.
    That would be wrong, I think. Readability is only a factor in extended reading,
    and as I understand Luckiesh and Moss, it is a measure of effort, not of result,
    i.e. not of how fast we read or how accurately, but of how easily we do so.\r\n\r\nLuckiesh
    and Moss seem to have been careful to seek ways to isolate effort in their attempt
    to measure readability through blink rate. Response to their work has not always
    done so, e.g. CHG's comment, as cited by Kent:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Dr. Luckiesh
    and his associate, Frank K. Moss, were commissioned to make a series of studies
    of the anatomy of letters, particularly in relation to what constitutes the optimum
    of legibility in their configuration, degree of boldness, and thus contributing
    to the ease and speed of reading.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis association or parallel
    of ease and speed suggests a misunderstanding of Luckiesh and Moss and a tendency
    to confuse effort and result. I suspect we all have a tendency to do this, both
    because reading is experienced holistically and because effort is unconscious
    and in many cases may be insignificant between different reading circumstances
    or occasions (affected by many extra-typographic factors, not least of which is
    the subject matter of the text and the quality of the writing)."
  created: '2011-07-12 19:25:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Readability is only a factor in extended reading\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    is, in the Luckiesh & Moss terminology.\r\n\r\nThere is an insurmountable gulf
    between this and the general understanding of what readability is amongst typographers
    and graphic designers.\r\n\r\nAccording to the methodology of Luckiesh & Moss
    (blink rates etc.), it may be possible to determine the readability of a page\u2014involving
    varying typographic parameters of line length and leading\u2014but what those
    pressing the issue want (and I would include Bill here, with his interest in sans
    vs serif), is a measure of the readability of a particular genre of type, or even
    a typeface, so that they can rationalize their work to themselves, or more likely
    a client concerned about the reach of an advertisement or the accessibility of
    a web page.\r\n\r\nThat was the case, as I understand it, with the ClearType fonts,
    where the project was greenlighted by Bill Gates, an engineer, on the premise
    that there would be measurable improvements, and that is what the tests delivered\u2014faster
    reading (as touted in <em>Now read this</em>)."
  created: '2011-07-12 19:46:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>There is an insurmountable gulf between this and the general understanding
    of what readability is amongst typographers and graphic designers.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    is that understanding? Is it really general, i.e. consistent and broadly accepted?\r\n\r\nIn
    my experience, the term readability is used very inconsistently by typographers
    and designers: sometimes as roughly interchangeable with legibility, sometimes
    associated with ease of reading (with ease seldom being defined), and sometimes
    in terms of word recognition as something distinct from letter recognition (which
    is begging the question).\r\n\r\nLuckiesh & Moss have a fairly clear definition
    of readability that is both distinct from legibility and suggests methods of testing
    that isolate readability as a factor independent of reading and accuracy. Even
    if this use of the term is rejected in favour of some other terminology, the notion
    of effort as a measurable factor seems to me important and likely to be overlooked
    if we don't find a way to draw attention to it. As Bill pointed out in New Orleans,
    what matters isn't our terminology or our definitions, but what we study. So the
    questions to ask re. Luckiesh & Moss seem to be \u2018Is reading fatigue a phenomenon?\u2019
    and \u2018Is blink rate a reliable measure of reading fatigue?\u2019 Whether we
    want to agree to call the measurement of ease vs. effort in reading fatigue a
    measure of \u2018readability\u2019 seems to me secondary to the study.\r\n\r\n<em>That
    was the case, as I understand it, with the ClearType fonts, where the project
    was greenlighted by Bill Gates, an engineer, on the premise that there would be
    measurable improvements, and that is what the tests delivered\u2014faster reading</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    quite. The studies cited in <em>Now read this</em> involved ClearType rendering
    vs. other display techniques, not the CT Font collection specifically. Note also
    that all these tests were conducted by people who don't believe in readability,
    who are primarily interested in legibility as measured by speed and accuracy in
    letter and word recognition. The point of Bill's talk in New Orleans is that there
    is a potentially measurable* aspect of reading that is independent of speed and
    accuracy, and hence might contribute to an independent concept of readability
    as ease of reading. This opens up the possibility of particular typeface settings
    having higher or lower readability measures independent of legibility measures,
    e.g. of a setting that scores less well in speed tests but which readers are able
    to read for longer while experiencing less fatigue.\r\n_____\r\n\r\n* I say potentially
    measurable because one of the questions that must be asked of the work of Luckiesh
    and Moss must be whether blink rate is a measure of reading fatigue."
  created: '2011-07-12 20:15:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I agree that Linotype didn't fully understand the distinction that
    Luckiesh was trying to make. The confusion is also in their 1947 pamphlet, as
    I quoted above. \r\n\r\nFor Luckiesh, readability applies to shorter reading times
    as well, as long as we are above threshold of very short times. Luckiesh did many
    tests only five minutes in length, but said that ideally they would be an hour.
    \r\n\r\nAs to the terms \"ease\" \"comfort\" \"fatigue\" \"effort\": they all
    mean something a little different in ordinary English, and are also significantly
    ambiguous. \r\n\r\nThe clearest terminology that I've found is what I learned
    from David DiLaura, an illumination engineer and historian of lighting and illumination.
    He speaks of the distinction between measuring \"performance\" and \"the psycho-physical
    costs of performance.\" For example, he explained to me, you may get just as good
    a work out of employees with bad chairs, but they will end up with aches and pains
    at the end of the day. The output is one thing, and the human cost of it is another.
    \r\n\r\nThere is a recent book [[http://www.amazon.com/Cognitive-Fatigue-Multidisciplinary-Perspectives-Applications/dp/1433808390/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1310501661&sr=8-1|Cognitive
    Fatigue]], which lays out how complex the problem of studying fatigue is, and
    provides some new models. They discuss such issues as how we compensate for fatigue,
    and the distinction between time-on-task fatigue from work, and sleepiness. \r\n\r\nIt
    is important not to get hung up on terminology. Greater clarity evolves as new
    theories come forward, and the new technical terms with them. The most important
    thing, in my view, is that we realize that the reading experience is multi-dimensional,
    and is influenced by more than one thing. The experience of fatigue or effort
    is clearly different from a performance measure like reading speed and comprehension.
    And to me it is pretty clear from Luckiesh that the fatigue dimension is important
    to the reading experience. It is also important is not to assume that threshold
    measures, such as from flashing words or very low contrast (visibility) necessarily
    tell us what is going on supra-threshold. \r\n\r\nNick, if Luckiesh is right that
    blink rate can, with controls, be a kind of global measure of readability, then
    I think it is clear that the readability of a text will depend at the very least
    on spacing factors (line length, leading, letter spacing) as well as the particular
    type face. Still, we might find useful rules that go across wide categories of
    text and settings. \r\n\r\nI haven't looked at the test of Microsoft's Cleartype,
    but I do think there's a great scope for testing on screen reading using blink
    rate. "
  created: '2011-07-12 21:32:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, I thought quoting the Gage \u201CForeword\u201D to <em>Reading as a
    Visual Task</em> might preempt your sense that there is an \u201Cinsurmountable
    gulf\u201D between what Luckiesh and Moss are trying to pin down and what typographers
    and type designers are all about.\r\n\r\nHaving read <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em>
    it is clear to me that the intent is the opposite of prescriptive and reductive:
    \u201CThe various factors which determine the visibility and the readability of
    reading material are always encountered in a complex combination. Therefore, it
    is essential that each factor be understood and appraised as individually as possible.\"
    [\u2026] \u201CIt is obvious that some factors are major ones and others are minor
    ones. Furthermore, as none of the factors is ever unaccompanied by others, it
    is impossible to rank them in a categorical manner. Nevertheless, an attempt is
    made to separate the various factors into groups and to treat them systematically
    and consequentially, somewhat in an order of rank.\"\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that
    this concern with \u201Cintegral effects\u201D is laudable, and perfectly commensurate
    with the craft knowledge native to type designers and typographers.\r\n\r\nI think
    the Luckiesh / Moss work is seminal on a number of levels. The treatment of visibility
    and super-threshold visibility in <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em> is a dense
    but rewarding <em>tour de force</em> that could spark new discussions about getting
    a handle on threshold and supra-threshold legibility.\r\n\r\nThere is an underdeveloped
    notion in Luckiesh and Moss of the efficiency of the cortical integrational processes
    within the visual cortex that could link up with work like Denis Pelli\u2019s
    on the feature detection / combining processes underlying recognition. This could
    combine with an emerging sense in psychophysics of a connection between blinking
    and detriments to \u201Cfeature discrimintion / binding / integration\u201D"
  created: '2011-07-12 23:36:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Kent, I find the Griffith response surprising.</cite>\r\n\r\nI am
    not surprised that there is a difference in response between \u201Cmanagement\u201D
    and \u201Cthe factory floor\u201D (which, although Griffith was technically a
    part of management, was clearly more where his sympathies and viewpoints originated).\r\n\r\nI
    take Gage\u2019s encomium with a grain of salt. Again, that is not to imply that
    there wasn\u2019t something indeed valuable and worthwhile in the studies. But
    I suspect, in this case, that the value was much more for Sales & Marketing and
    Promotion than perhaps for Design & Production.\r\n\r\n<cite> > It may well be
    that the early report only relied on \"visibility\" tests, using the Luckiesh-Moss
    Visibility Meter. </cite>\r\n\r\nNo, this report very clearly relies upon \u201Ceye
    blinks\u201D and refers to the two metrics of Visibility via the meter and Readability
    via eye blinks.\r\n\r\n<cite> > Thanks Kent, it will be interesting to learn the
    whole story here. As Peter says, in Reading as a Visual Task Luckiesh and Moss
    are a lot more modest in their claims. </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> > Having read Reading
    as a Visual Task it is clear to me that the intent is the opposite of prescriptive
    and reductive: </cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m reassured to hear that, a decade down the
    line, their stance had broadened and become more cautious and inclusive. There
    is not a lot of evidence of that in the initial report. And so we have the response
    that I quoted. Perhaps we can thank the critique of CHG and WAD with some small
    part in opening their eyes, so to speak, since what you quote is a reasonable
    paraphrase of Dwiggins\u2019s primary criticism.\r\n\r\nBut just for the amusement
    of the community, here is the outline of the L&M report (from the primary headings):\r\n\r\n<strong>Boldness
    as a Factor in Type-Design and Typography</strong>\r\n\r\nGeneral Considerations\r\nThe
    Measurement of Boldness\r\nThe Visibility of Memphis Types\r\nThe Readability
    of Memphis Types\r\nSpeed of Reading <em>[which they dismiss as not a meaningful
    measure]</em>\r\nSummary and Conclusions\r\n\r\nSo, having exhaustively measured
    two factors \u2014 viz. Visibility and Readability \u2014 with respect to boldness
    of the four-weight family of Memphis, here then are their conclusions, verbatim:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Since
    our typographical studies have been based invariably upon quantitative appraisals
    of both visibility and readability, and since each investigation has been prosecuted
    to the extent necessary to obtain data of a high standard of statistical reliability,
    it is now possible to present certain definite conclusions pertaining to the utilitarian
    merit of various type-faces. These conclusions are:\r\n\r\n\t1. A marked enhancement
    in the readability of the printed page can be obtained by augmenting the boldness
    of many types which are now being recommended or widely used for body texts.\r\n\t\r\n\t2.
    An enhancement in readability is decisively less promising by means of alterations
    in the configuration of modern type-faces than by utilizing the optimum degree
    of boldness.\r\n\t\r\n\t3. The design of a type of optimum readability may now
    be guided with reliability and exactness by measurements of visibility within
    a range which is now fairly definitely known.\r\n\t\r\nIt is emphasized again
    that all these conclusions are based upon the intrinsic visibility of the types
    studied and upon the facility with which they are actually read, and not upon
    introspective appraisals of the appearance of the printed page.\r\n\r\nThe design
    of a superior type -- a \"Super Textype\" seems to us to be an important future
    step in our cooperative research program. We are preparing a separate report on
    the immediate possibilities of further research and of development of an ideal
    type-face in the light of our current knowledge.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHow they
    came to claim No. 2 is beyond me (and Dwiggins). And No. 3 seems to be quite a
    bold extrapolation (if you\u2019ll pardon the pun). How they get from the study
    of one specific family (and size and setting) to \u201Cdefinite conclusions pertaining
    to the utilitarian merit of various type-faces\u201D is the question that comes
    under attack.\r\n\r\nAgain, these are what appear to the very first steps in Luckiesh
    and Moss\u2019s work in this area, and the very first reactions. I don\u2019t
    mean to cast aspersions on the totality of their work. Clearly, their perspective
    evolved considerably by the time you get to the 1947 publication. \r\n\r\nI just
    find this early snapshot interesting, amusing even.\r\n\r\nCopies will be in the
    mail to you tomorrow. Hopefully you will find this unpublished material of value
    in filling out the historical picture.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-13 00:48:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: [<em>David DiLaura</em>] <em>speaks of the distinction between measuring
    \"performance\" and \"the psycho-physical costs of performance.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    is an excellent way of putting it. I was thinking in terms of result and effort,
    but DiLaura's 'performance' and 'cost of performance' marks the relationship better."
  created: '2011-07-13 01:31:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "With regard to the influence of Luckiesh and Moss on the development of the
    legibility/readability distinction in typographic circles:\r\n\r\nBy coincidence,
    the TypeCon silent auction items included a copy of the 1951 book <em>Typography
    and Design,</em> a textbook produced by the United States Government Printing
    Office for the teaching of intermediate typography skills. There is a chapter
    devoted to 'Readability', and Luckiesh and Moss' <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em>
    is cited in the bibliography for this chapter."
  created: '2011-07-13 01:39:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "> a decade down the line / by the time you get to the 1947 publication<\r\n\r\nActually
    <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em> was published in 1942.\r\n\r\n> here is the
    outline of the L&M report <\r\n\r\nThe version published in the <em>Journal of
    Applied Psychology</em> has the same headings.\r\n\r\n> Speed of Reading [which
    they dismiss as not a meaningful measure] <\r\n\r\nThe version published in the
    <em>Journal of Applied Psychology</em> has \u201Crelatively insensitive and inadequate
    one for appraising readability.\u201D\r\n\r\n> their conclusions, verbatim <\r\n\r\nThe
    version published in the <em>Journal of Applied Psychology</em> has the same conclusions,
    except that the word \u2018definite\u2019 is dropped. The same conclusions appear
    in <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em> on page 177f.\r\n\r\n> How they came to claim
    No. 2 is beyond me (and Dwiggins). <\r\n\r\nLuckiesh and Moss\u2019s partial basis
    for this is probably the study they did in 1937, published in the <em>Journal
    of the Franklin Institute</em> [223] entitled \u201CThe Visibility of Various
    Typefaces.\u201D In <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em> the visibility measurements
    of modern faces are said to \u201Cserve as a first approximation of the more illusive
    [sic] and inclusive characteristic of readability,\u201D and are supplemented
    by the somewhat more divergent blink rate results, but the \u201Cless promising
    by means of alterations in the configuration\u201D conclusion remains the same
    where type is not \u201Cunduly stylized.\u201D"
  created: '2011-07-13 02:09:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, this actually doesn't surprise me, and is generally consistent with
    Luckiesh and Moss, though rather less cautious in wording. <em>Reading as a Visual
    Task</em> is 1942; the booklet written maybe by Gage? is 1947, and is a tribute
    to Luckiesh (Moss, the junior partner, died young), with many photos of apparatus.
    \ \r\n\r\nA few comments on the recommendations. By way of criticism of Luckiesh
    and Moss, I have argued that they underestimate the importance of reading speed.
    They don't in fact dismiss reading speed, but do argue that is is less sensitive
    than measures of fatigue, which is probably correct. They are, though, so proud
    of their discovery of the visibility and blink rate measures that they don't give
    proper weight to reading speed as a valuable quality in text. I think this over-doing
    their case was one cause of Tinker going berserk, and becoming obsessed for the
    rest of his life with attacking Luckiesh. Tinker had almost exclusively identified
    reading speed as \"the\" measure and even definition of legibility. \r\n\r\nIndeed,
    if you look at what they did, rather than their rhetoric, Luckiesh and Moss were
    better on reading speed than Tinker. They measured reading speed two ways: one
    by \"natural\" unhurried reading, and another by flashing lines before people
    at increasing speed to see at what point they could no longer read them. Peter
    Enneson has just heard from Gordon Legge, who is in fact Tinker's successor at
    Minnesota, confirming that that the reading speed test which Tinker used is unreliable,
    as Peter and I suspected. \r\n\r\nIf Luckiesh and Moss wrongly downplayed the
    importance of reading speed, they also misplaced the importance of visibility.
    If they read the message of their own chart on boldness, above, they would see
    that visibility and readability can go opposite directions. Again, they recognized
    this, but because of inventing the Visibility Meter, I think they kept wanting
    to say that visibility was more closely correlated to readability than it actually
    was. There is another problem involving visibility, which is that the threshold
    measures they used cannot be extrapolated as they did, according to current illumination
    expert Mark Rea, who is so to speak the current \"Luckiesh\" in the illumination
    field. \r\n\r\nAll that being said, the #2, above, does have a good rationale
    based on their research, though maybe Luckiesh didn't lay out the full case to
    Linotype as clearly as he later did in the book. They measured a number of type
    faces, and found that lightness was a problem in readability. And the Memphis
    test revealed that boldness was a problem too. So this did indicate that there
    is likely some kind of medium weight that is best for readability of text faces.
    \r\n\r\nThis view that there is an ideal medium for text also has been argued
    more recently by Adrian Frutiger. His recent reworking of Frutiger and Univers
    involves partly correcting what was done, ironically by Linotype, earlier to the
    text weight of these faces. The importance of medium weight is also corroborated
    by the [[http://clearviewhwy.com/ResearchAndDesign/legibilityStudies.php|tests
    on Clearview Highway]], where a stroke width to height ratio of 1:5.5 proved to
    be readable at a greater distance than the past Highway Gothic somewhat bolder
    weight of 1:5. This is a different kind of test than continuous reading and fatigue,
    but still it is an interesting agreement. \r\n\r\nAlso back when Robert Thorne's
    Bold Face was first introduced in the 19th century, Theodore Low de Vinne (in
    1885!) criticized its readability because it didn't have enough white space within.
    The idea of ideal ratio of stroke to height already goes back to scribal practice,
    and it is also the general practice not to have bold for extended text. \r\n\r\nThus
    to me Luckiesh's sense that a medium weight is critically important to readability
    of text has a lot going for it, even beyond his tests. However, his understanding
    of the issue was in my view too crude. He did not take into account that the width
    of characters, letter spacing, and the way thicks and thins are handled, and even
    leading also affects the visual impression of boldness, and probably also readability.
    At least that's my hypothesis.\r\n\r\nI think Luckiesh's bias for the importance
    of visibility also led him to put his foot down a little too hard on boldness,
    contrary to the actual result of his readability tests.\r\n\r\nThus I would say
    that his claim in #3 to \"exactness\" on the correct medium was a boast that he
    couldn't really back up as yet. It may well be that further research and more
    collaboration would have found out more. Evidently, Griffith and Diggins were
    unimpressed, and Luckiesh failed to sell Linotype on further research, if I get
    it right. But it looks like Gage and maybe others were impressed, and pushed Luckiesh,
    at least up till 1947. Did Gage leave then?\r\n\r\nThanks so much for the materials,
    which I look forward to!\r\n\r\nBy the way Peter was also rather skeptical of
    my great enthusiasm for Luckiesh, but when he actually read Luckiesh, he was as
    impressed as I was. As you can see, I am definitely critical of Luckiesh, but
    I also think he made an important breakthrough that has been unwisely and unfairly
    neglected.  "
  created: '2011-07-13 02:23:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks Kent, it will be interesting to learn the whole story here. As Peter
    says, in <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em> Luckiesh and Moss are a lot more modest
    in their claims. \r\n\r\nIt looks like there was some chest thumping on both sides,
    as well as some misunderstanding. It may well be that the early report only relied
    on \"visibility\" tests, using the Luckiesh-Moss Visibility Meter. Later, the
    more revealing results came from the blink rate tests. It may be that Luckiesh
    was chastened by the critical feedback and lifted his game also.  \r\n\r\nI don't
    think Luckiesh ever looked into letter spacing, which is what Dwiggins was interested
    in. Evidently, Gage was not interested in that and didn't ask Luckiesh. Corporate
    miscommunication. Of course that couln't happen today :)\r\n\r\nI don't think
    the collaboration actually ended in 1938, as Gage refers to several years of work.
    Further, in the 1947 pamphlet of Linotype, 'Researches in Readability,' again
    praising the collaboration, it explicitly says that Luckiesh's work did inform
    their recommendations to newspapers on which types to use. Discussing the revisions
    of Ionic No. 5, Linotype writes \"All of these design developments grew out of
    years of experience and observation. Research in this field had not arrived to
    offer further assistance. But current research studies have indicated a preferred
    selection among several such faces, each designed to meet just these [commercial
    printing] conditions.\"\r\n\r\nSo it looks like to me Luckiesh's work informed
    their recommendations on which of the Legibility Series was most suited to a newspaper.
    And I'm guessing this had to do with boldness and the presses. But I will be interested
    to learn more.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-07-13 03:48:31'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > The version published in the Journal of Applied Psychology has \u201Crelatively
    insensitive and inadequate one for appraising readability.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that is the exact wording. I over-generalized my editorial comment.\r\n\r\nSorry
    about the date mixup.\r\n\r\n<cite> > I also think he made an important breakthrough
    that has been unwisely and unfairly neglected.</cite>\r\n\r\nVery possibly. I
    leave that to you guys. Again, I am relatively neutral on the science itself.
    \r\n\r\nI was not aware that he was neglected in this field, given that this Linotype
    connection was known to me, so I apologize for my overly allergic reaction to
    what I perceived as hyperbole in your TypeCon title.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nAs
    promised, for those on the sidelines and in the cheap seats, here is the bulk
    of Dwiggins\u2019s response to the 1939 L&M report.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The determination
    of the best weight for a given size is valuable for criticising an existing design
    (type face). If it can be worked in combination with determinations of optimums
    of other variables \u2014 if it can be driven in team \u2014 it will be a valuable
    help in creating new designs. I think the problem is: how to hitch it up with
    other \u201Coptimums\u201D and make a team \u2014 that is what is needed to make
    the boldness findings valuable in the case of new designs.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n[
    .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. a brief outline of other variables WAD thinks could be studied
    .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. ]\r\n\r\n<blockquote>All these factors interplay; and the investigator
    has to keep all the balls in the air at once, as I see it, because each variable
    influences all the others. I suppose the only way to attack the problem is to
    take the points one at a time and try them out on the guinea pigs separately,
    and then put them all together and work a big Act 5 grand finale test. *But*,
    until they have been tested all working together in a complex, I can\u2019t see
    that the investigator is ready for his Conclusion No. 3 on page 11. For the same
    reason I can\u2019t agree with No. 2. Optimum weight alone is not enough to go
    ahead with.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n[restatement of Conclusion No. 2, already quoted
    above, followed by this footnote:]\r\n\r\n<blockquote>(* My God why don\u2019t
    they talk English? He means that there\u2019s more hope of making types legible
    by giving them the right heft than by bothering about shapes of the characters.)\r\n\r\nThey
    may be right .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. I dunno .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. It certainly puts it up to
    me. What am I on the payroll for? Why am I fussing about curves, \u201Caction\u201D,
    proportion, balance?  .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Their tests that turned up Memphis as the
    most legible face certainly prove that \u201Cthe configurations of the individual
    characters are relatively unimportant\u201D!\r\n\r\nI can understand that the
    laboratory is trying to rule out all subjective influences, and that it has to
    get its findings in terms of numerical values \u2014 dial reading \u2014 muscle-twitches
    per minute. And maybe that limitation rules out about one-half the facts in the
    case. It is fair for them to wipe them out, according to the rules of the game.
    But it isn\u2019t fair to Average D. Reader to force him to read a Super-Textype
    based on a formula that leaves out a half of the facts.\r\n\r\nNobody knows what
    goes on in the little grey cells when you read. The process varies from person
    to person. But it\u2019s a safe bet that a great many people read by means of
    word-images. BOAT registers on the brain as the idea \u201Cboat\u201D, not as
    a series of letters, b, o, a, t. Somewhere in that notion is the base line of
    my attack on the legibility problem \u2014 an effort to have the letters reach
    out to their neighbors on each side and join up to make a *word*. And I\u2019ll
    swear that the configuration of the individual characters has a lot to do with
    *that* function \u2014 family relationships \u2014 similarities in anatomical
    structure \u2014 coordinating gestures, so to speak&nbsp;: motions that bind together.
    </blockquote>\r\n\r\n[ .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. ]\r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I don\u2019t want
    any of this to make it seem that I am blowing cold on the laboratory end of the
    game. I\u2019m for getting all the facts *via* eye-blinks that a feller can get
    together. I have a great sympathy for muscle-twitches laid out on cross-section
    paper. I\u2019m half scientist you know. (To be sure the artist part cancels out
    the science part in the estimation of the laboratory crowd, and in commenting
    on laboratory findings I am sunk before I can run up a flag).\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    simply that I feel a little shaky about the L. & M. findings because I find the
    investigators so eager and willing to found a Super-Textype on \u201Cboldness\u201D
    alone&nbsp;: \u201CNow we\u2019ve got a sure basis to work on !\u201D They haven\u2019t.
    They\u2019ve built one corner of the foundation very nicely .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.\r\n\r\nI
    wish they had stopped earlier in the Report, and just said: \u201CHere\u2019s
    *one* factor in making a readable type, and we can pin it down for you\u201D.
    I\u2019d have felt much better.\r\n\r\nWAD</blockquote>\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-13 13:40:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Priceless, Kent! Thanks for typing all that out! Dwiggins really did write
    \u201Cin the American voice!\u201D I think it\u2019s very fair, and the force
    of it not lost on the Luckiesh and Moss of 1942! Perhaps they were made aware
    of it."
  created: '2011-07-13 14:14:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "First of all let me thank Peter Enneson, as I should have in my initial post,
    for his great help in working on the history of this debate. Once I ran across
    it, I enlisted his aid on the history, and he has been a fabulous \"Sherlock Holmes\"
    on the history and bibliography, as well as valuable sounding board on the issues.
    I was delighted by the warm reception of my talk at TypeCon, and it owed a lot
    to Peter. \r\n\r\nNick, there are (at least) two different pretty clear concepts
    of readability. One was used by Rudolf Flesch in his long ago best seller [[http://www.amazon.com/Art-Readable-Writing-Rudolf-Flesch/dp/0020464703|The
    Art of Readable Writing]]. That is the first meaning you refer to, and it may
    be that Flesch solidified that meaning, which refers to rhetoric, rather than
    visual appearance. \r\n\r\nThe meaning in terms of visual qualities of the text
    that promote ease of reading\u2014low effort or fatigue\u2014was introduced by
    Luckiesh. \r\n\r\nGraphic designers so far as I can see did not use the term in
    this specific sense until after Luckiesh introduced it in his research. I haven't
    seen it used in the specific sense of ease of reading (as distinguished from speed
    and comprehension) before WWII, i.e. before Luckiesh's work.  \r\n\r\nGraphic
    designers thus seem to have followed Luckiesh's lead. Works that explicitly define
    readability in Luckiesh's sense, in addition to my Uncle Ben Lieberman's <em>Types
    of Typefaces</em> are Tracy's <em>Letters of Credit</em>, Felici's <em>Complete
    Manual of Typography</em>, and Mitchell & Wightman's <em>Book Typography</em>.
    Both my Uncle and Tracy had direct connection to Linotype. \r\n\r\nThe distinction
    between legibility and readability is a more complicated story. \"Illegible\"
    in ordinary English has a clear and specific meaning of the letters and words
    not being visually identifiable, so that the would-be reader can't decode the
    meaning of what is written. But the positive term \"legible\" is not so precise.
    \"Readable\" is a broader term that includes layout, rhetoric, etc. So while in
    ordinary English there are some differences, when it comes specifically to visual
    qualities of text, there is no clear distinction in meaning between the two terms.
    \    \r\n\r\nTinker and others in the US used \"legibility\" as a technical term
    to mean reading speed exclusively. Tinker at some stage of his career also used
    \"readability\" interchangeably with \"legibility\". However he refused to recognize
    the reality of and argued against the reality of any measure of reading comfort
    other than reading speed. And later in his career he used only \"legibility\".
    \r\n\r\nTinker's practice of only recognizing \"legibility\" and identifying it
    with reading speed has been generally followed in the scientific community, where
    \"readability\" was not recognized as distinctive, once Tinker had done his attack
    job, particularly in his widely referenced 1963 book <em>Legibility of Print</em>.\r\n\r\nThe
    1947 booklet of Linotype 'Researches in Readability', which touts their collaboration
    with Luckiesh, gives his definition of readability, similar to what Peter quotes
    above, and then defines \"legibility\" as \"quickness of perception\", which they
    say is important in \"heading or display types.\" They also identify legibility
    with Luckiesh's \"visibility\", which unfortunately muddles the matter.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, Kent, the 1947 booklet of Linotype is testimony to the fact that someone
    at Linotype was still a big fan of Luckiesh, (Gage?) though it may not have been
    Chauncy Griffith, or Dwiggins.  \r\n\r\nLuckiesh himself defined Visibility, as
    measured by the Luckiesh-Moss Visibility Meter, which they invented, and Readability,
    as measured primarily by blink rate. Luckiesh said that the meaning of \"legibility\"
    wasn't clear, though often identified with reading speed, and he didn't want to
    use the term at all. \r\n\r\nLieberman didn't use Linotype's definition, but rather
    defined \"legibility\" as \"ease of distinguishing between letters\". Tracy follows
    Lieberman on \"legibility\", but Felici is closer to what Linotype said. Mitchell
    & Wightman (2005) is back to Lieberman's definition. \r\n\r\nGordon Legge, an
    outstanding reading scientist today and Tinker's current successor at Minnesota
    criticizes Tinker for a \"behaviorist\" identification of readability and reading
    speed. \r\n\r\nTo me the important issues are NOT terminological. Reading speed
    is an important consideration in understanding reading, as is reading fatigue.
    What terms you use is not so important as being clear. Much of the debate on Typophile
    I think has been muddled by our not having the element of clarity that Luckiesh
    brought to these issues. \r\n\r\nNow we may distinguish how quickly words can
    be read in flashing on the screen from the contrast threshold (visibility) as
    well as reading speed, fatigue and other qualities. The challenge is to understand
    what is going on when we read, and not to decide the \"essential\" meaning of
    one term or the other. \r\n\r\nOn a personal note, I was gratified to learn at
    TypeCon that Ronald Arnhold, designer of Legacy, said he still values my Uncle's
    book highly, and Ed Benguiat said he knew Lieberman very well, and in fact lost
    out to him in buying the Kelmscott press of William Morris, which was also at
    one time owned by Goudy.  "
  created: '2011-07-13 16:05:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Kent! The comments of Dwiggins are completely fair, and if I might
    say so are in line with I said in my above critique of Luckiesh, namely that his
    analysis has a core of valuable insight but is too crude. It seems also that Dwiggins
    was actually quite a bit more positive than Griffith about Luckiesh and Moss.
    \r\n\r\nDwiggins does credit Luckiesh and Moss with building \"one corner of the
    foundation very nicely,\" but in effect mistaking one corner for the whole structure.
    I think Dwiggins's analysis is right on target. But as Peter says, I think Luckiesh
    was chastened by what he heard from Linotype, as the tone of the book is much
    more cautious and balanced than what he, elated by his discoveries, wrote in that
    initial report to Linotype.  \r\n\r\nTinker, by contrast, relentlessly attacked
    that corner, denying that it had any validity. The title of my TypeCon talk, the
    'Great Readability Scandal,' had nothing to do with Luckiesh's relationship with
    Linotype, and everything to do with Tinker's successful suppression in the scientific
    community of Luckiesh's work. Fatigue researcher John Stern's 1994 review article
    on the quarrel, and and at least partial vindication of Luckiesh's work after
    over 40 years, is what motivated my title.\r\n\r\nTinker's approach of reducing
    the reading experience to one \"best\" measure I think has had a very damaging
    effect on subsequent research, and one of my purposes was to rehabilitate the
    multi-variate approach of Luckiesh. In fact, the approach of Luckiesh allows for
    the very kind of mult-dimensional research that Dwiggins advocates.\r\n\r\nI think
    science has a lot to benefit from Luckiesh and Moss's work. For typographers,
    the gain of putting their name and work to the concept of \"readability\" is I
    think to add clarity to the concept\u2014that it is a measure of effort or fatigue
    in reading. And that effort needed to read is an important consideration in typography,
    in addition to speed and comprehension.   \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-07-13 16:30:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The concept of eye fatigue, derived from blink rate, is misleading.\r\nFatigue
    is something we associate with muscles becoming tired, but that cannot be the
    case with blinking here.\r\nThe normal blink rate is 10 times a minute, reduced
    to 3-4 times when concentrating (focused) on tasks such as reading.\r\nSo even
    if a reader blinks twice as much because the text appears dirty (or whatever),
    that is still not up to the normal rate of blinking, which one would assume does
    not cause fatigue.\r\n\r\nThere is arguably more of a physical toll taken by not
    blinking as much as normal (dry eyes), but as one is able to read for long periods
    of time at a reduced blink rate, surely the range of blink rate can vary considerably
    with no adverse physical effects.\r\n\r\nThere does appear to be some correlation
    between hard-to-read text and blink rate, but even the idea that more effort is
    required is problematic. What Luckiesh & Moss were really talking about is readability
    as convenience. \r\n\r\nIf there is eye strain from poor readability, I would
    expect it to be caused by excess use of the muscles used to focus the lens, but
    not by regression\u2014because as much effort is required to move forward as to
    move back.\r\n\r\nWhat if the strain of poor readability is entirely mental?\r\n\r\nAfter
    all, do athletes experience tired eyes, when they are using their eyes to the
    max to follow the ball?\r\n\r\nI think we assume there is eye strain involved
    in reading, because intense reading causes eyes to dry out, and hold one's eyelids
    open more than normal\u2014which tires the eyelid muscles (the relaxed position
    being closed). But blinking more when reading would ameliorate that.\r\n\r\nTherefore,
    text with good readability is fatiguing to the eye, because of the effort required
    to \"hold the pose\" of eyelids open, for long periods of time.\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand, text with poor readability may cause fatigue to the muscles which
    focus the lens, as more careful inspection of the sharp details of letters is
    involved."
  created: '2011-07-13 21:11:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, by identifying readability with effort or fatigue, aren't you in danger
    of making the same mistake Tinker made by identifying legibility with speed?\r\n\r\nI
    think what needs to be shown is that *a* factor in the elevation of blink rate
    as a result of time on task is \"ease of visual word-form resolution.\" This has
    to be thought of roughly in feature detection / feature binding** / \u201Crole-unit
    level statistics\u201D gathering terms. I would think the kind of attention to
    \u201Ccoordinating gestures\u201D that Dwiggins aptly describes, makes the detection
    / binding / statistics-gathering process go more smoothly, that is more efficiently.
    We have to become acquainted with what happens in the \u201Clittle grey cells\u201D
    within the visual cortex, that affects effort and results in fatigue.\r\n\r\nYou
    write as if readability is the measure and fatigue and effort are the critical
    factors. I think construction, contrast, size, boldness and spacing are the critical
    factors, blink rate is the measure, and visual word-form resolution is what is
    affected. The effect on visual word-form resolution of manipulating the critical
    factors is the pivotal concern for questions of typographical readability.\r\n\r\n[**I\u2019m
    unhappy with the feature detection / feature integration \u201Cfunctional ontology\u201D
    as you know, but that's somewhat beside the point here.]"
  created: '2011-07-13 21:38:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>The concept of eye fatigue, derived from blink rate, is misleading.</em>\r\n\r\nNote
    that Bill did not say <em>eye</em> fatigue. This is something that I started talking
    with him about over lunch after his talk, and perhaps a topic to take up again.
    I wondered what Luckiesh and Moss meant by fatigue, and certainly we should clarify
    that before making assumptions or drawing conclusions based on what you or eye
    might think the term means. Something that Bill mentioned is \u2018cognitive fatigue\u2019,
    which obviously implies something other than muscle fatigue. It is also worth
    bearing in mind that, due to the direct connection of the visual cortex, the eyes
    are in a sense part of the brain.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nPeter: <em>Bill, by identifying
    readability with effort or fatigue, aren't you in danger of making the same mistake
    Tinker made by identifying legibility with speed?</em>\r\n\r\nWas that a mistake?
    It seems to me that Tinker's mistake was to ignore effort and focus only on results.
    Speed (with accuracy) is a great <em>performance</em> test, and if we want to
    identify that with legibility I don't think that's a bad use of the term. If you're
    concerned that the process of word recognition involves something other than individual
    letter recognition, that just implies that the term legibility must apply to units
    of recognition other than individual letters. That's a terminological shift, but
    it seems to me a sensible one, and far better than trying to identify legibility
    with recognising individual letters and readability with recognising something
    else. Why not say that legibility is associated with recognition (letters, features,
    relationships), and readability is associated with the effort involved in that
    recognition. In other words, legibility is performance and can be tested as such
    (speed and accuracy), and readability is cost and should be testable as such (and
    hence my first question to Bill after his talk: \u2018Is blink rate a reliable
    test of effort in reading?\u2019).\r\n\r\n<em>You write as if readability is the
    measure and fatigue and effort are the critical factors. I think construction,
    contrast, size, boldness and spacing are the critical factors, blink rate is the
    measure, and visual word-form resolution is what is affected. The effect on visual
    word-form resolution of manipulating the critical factors is the pivotal concern
    for questions of typographical readability.</em>\r\n\r\nI think one of the great
    things about rediscovering the origins of the legibility/readability distinction
    in typography is that it frees us from the unending cycle of debate, here and
    elsewhere, about where to draw the line between them and how they relate to visual
    word-form resolution. We've been going round and round for years now trying to
    associate readability with something that happens in word recognition, distinct
    from the role of legibility. If we shift readability into the domain of effort
    -- how easy/hard is it to read a given typographic treatment --, we can deal with
    it both conceptually and empirically as distinct from legibility, and in the process
    free-up legibility from a too-narrow association with letter recognisability."
  created: '2011-07-13 22:06:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: John, I want to associate legibility with basic affordance and readability
    with <em>efficient</em> processing in neural encoding, activation and transmission
    terms. I think good typography and type design contributes to that. My attraction
    to Luckiesh is that his visibility / readability disjunction appears to provide
    a precedent or stimulus for this.
  created: '2011-07-13 22:37:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "> what Luckiesh and Moss meant by fatigue <\r\n\r\nL&M talk about fatigue
    of the extrinsic eye muscles, pupillary changes, heart rate and nervous muscular
    tension but they relate rate of involuntary blinking what Ponder and Kennedy summarize
    as \u201Cthe mental tension of the subject at the time.\u201D \u201CIn all probability
    the movements constitute a kind of relief mechanism, whereby nervous energy, otherwise
    utilized, passes into a highly facilitated path.\u201D\r\n\r\nStern and an associate
    Orchard associate Ponder and Kennedy's term \"mental tension\" with the more usual
    term \"attention\" According to Orchard and Stern Ponder and Kennedy \"inferred
    that persons inhibit blinking while actively engaged in information abstraction
    whether in response to simple stimuli or during the course of reading.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    taking Orchard and Stern to mean visual information abstraction, because how else
    would it become a gauge of typographic factors."
  created: '2011-07-13 23:33:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter: \"Bill, by identifying readability with effort or fatigue, aren't
    you in danger of making the same mistake Tinker made by identifying legibility
    with speed?\"\r\n\r\nPeter, please don't take what I say as definitional, or we
    will get into terminological debates again, and these are usually fruitless. We
    can avoid getting entangled in terminological debates. I follow Popper's idea
    that theory is primary, and that trying to define terms precisely before developing
    theories is a trap, a trap that Popper calls \"essentialism,\" deriving from Aristotle's
    faulty idea science is a matter of defining essences.\r\n\r\nMy model is Newton's
    law of motion F=ma, where 'F' is force, 'm' is mass, and 'a' is acceleration.
    None of these terms is defined in physics, and if you look at Max Jammer's books
    \"Concepts of Force\" \"Concepts of Space,\" etc., you will see that nobody understands
    them fully, much less defines them precisely. And definition is inherently limited
    because it involves other terms that either are undefined or shift the burden
    again to other terms used in the definitions.   \r\n\r\nNewton's law expresses
    a relationship, and the meaning of the other terms is investigated and refined
    by testing and other theories relating to different forces, motion, and so on.
    \r\n\r\nWhat is normal in the progress of science is *demarcating* one term from
    another. For example, Newton for the first time clearly distinguished mass and
    weight. Weight is the force of gravity on an object; its resistance to motion
    under force is its mass. So, for example, an object with the same mass will weigh
    different amounts on the earth and moon, but respond in motion to the same amount
    of force in the same way. \r\n\r\nIn the case of Luckiesh, I think the basic conceptual
    clarification is the distinction between performance and the costs of performance.
    I like this language better than Luckiesh's, but the concept is clearly there
    in the chart he often reproduced in different forms:  \r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Luckiesh_efficiency_seeing_chart_no_caption_small_4692.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    middle darker portion represents the costs of performance, which you can call
    effort, fatigue or whatever. The idea is that brighter light, better typography,
    etc., can move you to the right on the chart. The important thing is not the terminology,
    but the distinction between performance measures and psycho-physical costs, whatever
    you call them. \r\n\r\nI am not stuck on the terms \"ease\" or its inverse \"effort\"
    or \"fatigue\". The important thing is the demarcation between performance and
    its costs gives us some additional clarity that we didn't have before, as John
    has said. \r\n\r\nI think it is clear that blink rate does partly indicate cost
    of reading performance. But \"What exactly is blink rate measuring?\" is a good
    question. For we know blink reacts to many things, including auditory tasks, and
    not just visual ones. Luckiesh and Moss tried hard to keep factors other than
    typographic ones constant, so they wouldn't confound the result. And they got
    cleaner results than their rivals, who had less careful controls. \r\n\r\nBut
    the question remains what exactly are the causes of increased blink rate with
    say type that is lighter or bolder than ideal for extended text. For example are
    they muscle fatigue, fatigue from processing the visual cortex, or from elsewhere
    in the brain?\r\n\r\nThese are questions that cannot be decided by definition,
    but need to be investigated by hypothesis and experiment. My own hypothesis, influenced
    by recent papers, is that one of the factors is that when there is more \"noise\"
    relatively to \"signal\" in set type that the visual cortex has to use more dopamine
    and other brain chemicals in processing the image. Then the brain cells take more
    time to get the fully renewed chemical supply from the blood. As blinks partly
    suppress visual processing, they give the circulatory system more time to refresh
    the brain. Incidentally, John Stern felt that duration and amplitude of blink
    was a more sensitive measure of fatigue, and I am not set on blink rate either.
    But I do see blink as reflecting brain processes, and not just muscular strain.
    \r\n\r\nSo I see increased blinks as they relate to typographic factors\u2014as
    opposed to brightness, glare, contrast etc.\u2014as primarily caused by the need
    for more time to refresh brain chemicals. \r\n\r\nI don't know how to test this,
    but it seems to me it ought to be testable. \r\n\r\nThus I agree with you, Peter,
    that one part of blink rate, which hopefully we can isolate in testing, does reflect
    brain processing costs. But this is a matter which is not helped at all by trying
    to make it a question of definition. The idea of costs of performance is somewhat
    vague and it should be until we learn more what they actually are. That's a problem
    for further scientific inquiry, and not a definitional issue.   "
  created: '2011-07-14 02:25:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, I'm not an essentialist. Essentialism is your bug-a-boo and you sometimes
    like to pin it in me because of my phenomenological sympathies. Like you and many
    others I'm looking for terminological clarity and stability. I think terminology
    does matter, but theory is where the rubber hits the road. Having a shared terminological
    matrix [construct system / functional ontology] adequate to the task of opening
    up the domain is of great ancillary importance. Terminological agreements are
    like social contracts and have to feel meaningful if they're to stick. Why is
    crowding called crowding?\r\n\r\nMy point was to say that just saying \u201C[readability]
    is a measure of effort or fatigue in reading\u201D or psychophysical cost is insufficient.
    It doesn't tell me much, or at least not enough of what we need to know. Effort
    and fatigue are fuzzy. They just point us in a general direction or tell as approximately
    where to look. At the very least readability has to be seen as a qualitative marker
    used in assessing functional conformities between aspects of items in a stimulus
    set and visual processing architectures of a distinct sort, i.e., the sort we
    use in visual information processing during continuous reading. Non-conformities
    my lead to an expense of effort which over time might contribute to fatigue, but
    I don't know what it means to say \u201C[readability] is a measure of effort or
    fatigue in reading\u201D\r\n\r\nFor the luckieshian broadening of the field to
    be of use today, and its terminological initiative to become cognitive-scientifiaclly
    stabilized by being securely anchored to actual neuro-physical functioning, we
    need to focus more directly on the nature and brain-anatomical location of the
    actual costs \u2014 which are the relevant costs when we are trying to assess
    typographical and type-design specific questions, and what exactly is responsible
    for the costs, why does the progressively more frequent dopamine infusion become
    necessry. For example does bad spacing throw out the narrow phase alignment necessary
    for efficient processing? Or, to use Dwiggin\u2019s example, do dissimilarities
    in anatomical structure throw off the channel tuning necessary for efficient quantization?\r\n\r\nYou
    try to move in this direction by referring to signal to noise ratios."
  created: '2011-07-14 04:31:15'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Just to flesh out, because my edit function stops after 15 or so minutes:
    [line 4] theory, in the sense of conjectures and refutations (using tests) or
    confirmations, is where the rubber hits the road... \r\n\r\nTo be clear, I'm not
    rejecting the <em>association</em> of readability with ease. I'm just asking,
    what in perceptual processing terms or neuro-mechanical terms, or perceptual psychophysical
    terms does this ease consist of. Perhaps there are more kinds of ease in reading
    that have to do with typography and design than the ones I specified above, for
    example those involved with moving along the line, and those involved in text-navigation.\r\n\r\nI
    also react to your phraseology when you use \u201Cis a measure of\u201D and \u201Crefers
    to\u201D. In <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em> Luckiesh and Moss write: \u201C[t]he
    term readability is used to express <em>that attribute</em> of reading materials
    <em>which governs</em> [my emphasis] the relative ease with which different materials
    may be read by subjects possessing normal vision and exhibiting normal responses.\u201D
    and in the earlier passage quoted above it is clear that Luckiesh and Moss see
    this ease as an integral effect, or a summation of the effects of various typographic
    factors. To give a measure of these effects, that is, to provide some quantitative
    data, blink rate is used. It was the most sensitive indicator they could find.
    \r\n\r\nMy point was that strictly speaking, readability is not the measure, blink
    rate is; readability doesn't refer to effort, greater effort is what problems
    with a text's readability results in. I want to preserve the sense of readability
    as an attribute which governs, or qualitative marker. But I don't want to put
    to fine a point on it. This is after all just terminological."
  created: '2011-07-14 13:06:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Like you and many others I'm looking for terminological clarity and stability.\r\n\r\nPeter,
    I'm not looking for terminology at all, but rather for a deeper understanding
    of how we read. Terminology is necessary tool but arguing about it to me is a
    distraction. I think <em>terminology will be more settled when the theories are
    better,</em> not the other way around. I see terminology as sometimes a help and
    sometimes a hindrance, but not the heart of the matter. I see a focus on terminology,
    rather than try to answer questions about reading, as a distraction.   \r\n\r\nAs
    I have said, if thinking about terminology helps you get new ideas, fine, because
    you have good ideas, but the reality is that this not the only way to get new
    theories, and this approach I think makes your writing much harder to understand.
    \ \r\n\r\nWe don't have to use the terms \"readability\" and \"legibility\" at
    all. The question of how reading speed, comprehension, and fatigue are affected
    by typographic factors are important questions whatever terminology you use. \r\n\r\nTo
    go back to Newton's law of motion, you can also formulate it in different terminology,
    such as work and energy. But it's the same theory, equivalent in meaning. So terminology
    is not the heart of the matter.\r\n\r\nLuckiesh said that reading comfort or ease
    is affected by typographic factors, and causes variations in blink rate. That
    is a theory you can formulate many ways, using different terminology. I agree
    with you that to advance this theory, we need more understanding of the causality
    of blinks and the nature of eye and brain processing during reading. "
  created: '2011-07-14 13:47:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, you seem to think I am trying to get terminology settled first and
    than build theory. Just the opposite is true. Any terminological refinement I've
    proposed was generated by immersing myself in the literature, running up against
    disconnects in the models proposed to illuminate the data, and trying to move
    forward toward a more sustainable and intellectually satisfying alternative theory.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    forget about it, as my father used to say. \r\n\r\nWhere were we? Oh yes, there
    is a necessity to talk about visibility in the nuanced manner Luckiesh and Moss
    do, corrected perhaps by Rae; there is the necessity to address reading speed
    or output; there is a need to delve further into the intricacies of blink rate,
    ease, effort and fatigue. \r\n\r\nOn reading rate I have the following. \r\n\r\nOne
    of the outcomes of the debates between Luckiesh and Tinker is the recognition
    that Tinker was concerned mostly with the \u2018knee\u2018. When size or illumination
    levels are plotted against reading speed the graphs show a steep rise, than a
    wide plateau, and than a gradual decline. See the lower curves on the two graphs
    earlier in this thread. The knee is the transition area between the sharp ascent
    and the flat plateau. \r\n\r\nOne way of characterizing the Luckiesh / Tinker
    debate is to say that Tinker was concerned almost exclusively with the knee, while
    with readability Luckiesh and Moss were concerned with factors affecting what
    happens on the plateau, and with threshold and supra-threshold visibility factors
    they were concerned with factors determining what happens below and up to the
    knee.\r\n\r\nIs there a home for the typographical term legibility in this scheme?\r\n\r\nIs
    the knee an inflection point where visibility issues become less decisive and
    readability issues take over?"
  created: '2011-07-14 15:00:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "And John, one of the determinants in setting the location of the knee and
    in the fact that rate stays at a constant level through a range of illuminations
    and sizes is \u2018the efficiency of the eye\u2019 and maintaining \u201Cclear
    seeing.\u201D The efficiency of the eye was explored in detail and with tests
    by Ferree and Rand before Tinker and Paterson or the Luckiesh and Moss team hit
    their stride. Both teams were aware of the Ferre and Rand work. Luckiesh and Moss
    regard the efficiency of the eye as a confounding factor in reading speed. They
    claimed it accounted for the relative insensitivity of rate of reading as a criterion.
    \r\n\r\nThe \u201Cefficiency of the eye\u201D concept brought to my mind your
    notion of readerability!\r\n\r\nBoth teams were aware the efficiency of the eye
    in maintaing clear seeing under adverse or sub-optimal conditions has a cost.
    Ferree and Rand even tried to control blink rate. Tinker didn't ignore the cost
    but tried to accommodate it by suggesting safe zones. He made no attempt to quantify
    these. Luckiesh and Moss of course tried to quantify the cost."
  created: '2011-07-14 15:38:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This is very interesting information.\r\n\r\nNot being familiar with this
    history, I had simply felt that legibility, being much easier to measure than
    readability (in the sense of comfort in reading), had tended to push readability
    aside without <em>help</em>.\r\n\r\nThe fact that there was early research that
    showed that readability could also be measured objectively, rather than left to
    the subjective experience of typographers, is something I find very encouraging
    - because it gives typographers a way of defending themselves against a misguided
    emphasis on legibility alone.\r\n\r\nObviously, a typeface can be highly legible,
    but distracting and ugly at the same time."
  created: '2011-07-14 15:49:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, I don't know if you are kidding, but Luckiesh and Moss are a big deal
    scientifically, though not as far as lessons to typographers, because they were
    only a start. But it was promising start, unlike Tinker, who successfully killed
    any further reference to Luckiesh, and whose own work I think put a dead hand
    on further research by reducing all issues to reading speed. \r\n\r\nMany factors
    are likely involved in good visual experience for the reader, and they may at
    times be in tension with one another. Luckiesh studied three factors: visibility\u2014a
    threshold contrast measure, reading speed, and fatigue as measured by blink rate.
    \r\n\r\nIf you actually read some of Luckiesh and Moss, I think you will see how
    interesting they are. Frankly it is the first work on readability or legibility
    that I actually found interesting. Most of the results before and since are equivocal
    or uninteresting. \r\n\r\nHere is one of his more interesting results, in which
    Luckiesh and Moss compare four weights of the slab serif Memphis:\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Luckiesh_boldness_small_5996.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
    you see, reading rate between the medium and bold is pretty much the same. Tinker
    concludes from similar results that it doesn't matter whether you use medium or
    bold\u2014instead of thinking that his measure of reading speed might be inadequate.
    This is the kind of dismissal of typographic craft that has led to the lack of
    esteem for readability research, and I think that this negative view by people
    with typographic expertise has been largely justified.\r\n\r\nLuckiesh, though,
    finds that readability of the bold, as measured by blink rate, declines dramatically
    compared to medium, though it is still above the light weight. The conclusion
    is that there is some kind of ideal weight range for \"normal\" text type for
    extended reading, something which Adrian Frutiger has argued also. \r\n\r\nNow
    this recommendation follows current practice, so it does not result in any change.
    But it shows that Luckiesh was on to something. He also finds that Bold is more
    visible than Medium, which would explain why bold is often preferred for titles.
    It attracts the eye by being the most visible thing on the page even though it
    is not the most comfortable to read in extended text. \r\n\r\nHere you have different
    factors that reflect the reality of the kind of trade-offs you face in designing
    a page, and I haven't seen that in any other scientist. \r\n\r\nI would be very
    interested to find out the interaction with Luckiesh and Linotype. They were at
    least happy enough for Harry L. Gage, vice-president of Linotype, to write the
    preface to <em>Reading as a Visual Task</em>. Did Linotype provide any funding?
    Did they ask questions for Luckiesh and Moss to investigate? I know they provided
    typeset samples. Luckiesh also claimed that his work influenced Newspaper design,
    so I'd be interested if there is any correspondence on that. \r\n\r\nOne of the
    other of Luckiesh's more interesting results was a relatively short line, a bit
    over one lc alphabet, was more readable than a two alphabet length. This was only
    for 10/12 Linotype Textype, so he said that a lot more research needed to be done.
    Still it raises interesting questions. \r\n\r\nI want to emphasize that in my
    view this is not an example of <em>plus \xE7a change</em>. On the contrary, Luckiesh
    made an advance. No one ever discussed readability specifically as a matter of
    fatigue before Luckiesh, and afterward it entered the lexicon of typographers
    in this sense of ease of reading\u2014low effort and low fatigue. That is only
    one indication of what in fact did change, and did not stay the same. The going
    round and round is because this important advance was buried by academic politics
    and misguided ideas about methodology. Luckiesh is in my view a key to stop going
    round and round, not more of the same. \r\n "
  created: '2011-07-14 20:10:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Obviously, a typeface can be highly legible, but distracting and ugly at
    the same time.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nHmmmm, not so obviously to me."
  created: '2011-07-14 20:36:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>Perhaps there are more kinds of ease in reading that have to do
    with typography and design than the ones I specified above, for example those
    involved with moving along the line, and those involved in text-navigation.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that we need to develop what we mean by \u2018ease\u2019 (and hence
    by \u2018effort\u2019), while being aware that it might provide difficult to isolate
    different kinds of ease in a meaningful way (meaningful to type design that is).
    Note that I don't mean develop what we mean in terminology, but identify the phenomena
    that constitute ease.\r\n\r\n<em>The \u201Cefficiency of the eye\u201D concept
    brought to my mind your notion of readerability!</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. And now,
    thanks to Bill's research on L&M, we're faced not only with how well people perform
    the reading task, but also how well they compensate for factors that make the
    task more difficult. This really does suggest to me that if type designers and
    typographers are to positively affect readability, it is in the area of reduction
    of the need for such compensations, rather than in the area of word form resolution
    per se. Unless the text is functionally illegible, we will resolve the word forms,
    because that is what we do when we are reading, and we may even do so with relatively
    consistent speed and accuracy, but what it costs us to do so will vary depending
    on both text-intrinsic (type size, type weight, line length, leading) and -extrinsic
    (lighting, motion, noise) factors."
  created: '2011-07-14 23:10:42'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In my last post above I wrote: \u201Cone of the determinants in setting the
    location of the knee and in the fact that rate stays at a constant level through
    a range of illuminations and sizes is \u2018the efficiency of the eye\u2019 and
    maintaining \u201Cclear seeing.\u201D\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and</em> maintaining \u201Cclear
    seeing\u201D should have been <em>in</em> maintaining \u201Cclear seeing.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    also asked: \u201C[i]s the knee an inflection point where visibility issues become
    less decisive and readability issues take over?\u201D\r\n\r\nBill criticized Luckiesh
    and Moss for not doing enough with reading speed and trying too hard to correlate
    visibility and readability. Had they recognized that Tinker and Paterson\u2019s
    measure of choice might help them with this by revealing an inflection point\u2026
    [well, who knows where their conversations might have gone]\r\n\r\n[John] \"This
    really does suggest to me that if type designers and typographers are to positively
    affect readability, it is in the area of reduction of the need for such compensations[\u2026].\u201D\r\n\r\nYes!"
  created: '2011-07-15 13:55:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, John's \"readerability\" is a key factor here. We have great ability
    to compensate for fatigue, and the questions are: \r\n\r\n1.) On the scientific
    side, how can we detect and measure when we are compensating for fatigue? \r\n\r\n2.)
    As type and graphic designers, how do we minimize the unnecessary typographic
    causes of reading effort and fatigue?\r\n\r\nOne of the complexities here is made
    clear by the <em>Cognitive Fatigue</em> book: when we are enjoying a difficult
    task, we don't get nearly as tired doing it. When we are bored or otherwise don't
    want to do it the fatigue factor goes way up. One of the theorists on fatigue,
    David Hockey of Sheffield U., has a model in which cognitive fatigue is basically
    a competition for attention. \r\n\r\nLuckiesh was careful to try to keep the reading
    material uniformly interesting, so that factor would not interfere with the results.
    \r\n\r\nI agree with Luckiesh that global features of the typeface, design features
    that go throughout the face, rather than individual characters, are the main thing
    in readability. However, regarding \"boldness\" as single feature is too simple.
    The curves that Dwiggins writes about and weight distribution are two sides of
    the same coin. And character shape and width and letter spacing all contribute
    to overall typographic color. And in the real world aesthetics matters a lot to
    fatigue because of the interest factor.  \r\n\r\nPeter, I don't understand what
    Luckiesh was writing about vis a vis Tinker's interest in the \"knee\". The reading
    speed tests are all beyond threshold conditions. Could you quote the passage? "
  created: '2011-07-15 15:44:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, the part about the role visibility (including level of supra-threshold
    visibilty) plays above and below the knee is my addition. There has to be a basic
    level of supra-threshold visibility to get reading-speed up to the knee. \r\n\r\nLuckiesh's
    criticism was that using illumination values that merely take reading speed to
    the knee is the wrong metric for determining <em>ideal</em> lighting values; it
    ignores the additional benefits to ease [pe: efficient processing] that can accrue
    with additional lighting. It is the wrong metric because reading speed fails to
    discriminate performance characteristics, such as ease, above the knee, i.e.,
    on the plateau."
  created: '2011-07-15 16:21:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, Luckiesh\u2019s passage about the \u201Cknee\u201D is in \u201CA Reply
    to Dr. Miles A. Tinker\u201D <em>Illuminating Engineering</em> 1948 [V 43, page
    888]: \u201CTinker also concerns himself with the \u201Cknees\u201D of curves,
    which may be partially justified when one is interested in the compromises involved
    in recommended footcandles rather than in ideal footcandle-levels.\u201D"
  created: '2011-07-15 18:06:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just to provide context to Peter's latest posts, Tinker's quarrel with Luckiesh
    started before the issues over testing optimal typography. It started back in
    the 1930's with a dispute about best levels of illumination. Tinker wanted to
    measure only performance, and visual acuity doesn't change rapidly once above
    threshold levels of illumination. Luckiesh said yes, but people complain of fatigue
    and eye strain at low levels of lighting. He wanted better measures above threshold,
    measures of fatigue to indicate comfortable illumination levels. He did several
    measures, eventual finding blink rate. This measure was also able to distinguish
    typographic factors more sensitively than the performance measure of reading speed.
    Tinker attack Luckiesh on both fronts. \r\n\r\nTinker carried on both disputes,
    eventually bringing the illumination issues to the Illuminating Engineering Society,
    of which Luckiesh had once been president. Tinker lost that battle in the short
    term, but Luckiesh's methodology was also lost in this field. However, the higher
    illumination levels that Luckiesh had argued for\u2014and still higher ones\u2014are
    still recommended in the standards issued by the Illuminating Engineering Society.
    \ "
  created: '2011-07-15 19:33:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "So for Tinker's purposes -- measuring reading speed --, illumination could
    be isolated from results and ignored if a) above threshold and b) consistent across
    testing. And that seems to make sense insofar as he didn't care about effort/fatigue,
    which he was also isolating and ignoring.\r\n\r\nI suppose, though, that there
    is some sort of threshold relationship also between effort and speed, i.e. a point
    at which the compensations of effort fail and reading speed is affected. This
    implies that factors affecting effort, such as illumination level, can't be fully
    isolated in speed testing unless above an effort threshold as well as a legibility
    threshold."
  created: '2011-07-15 23:00:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The mid thirties debates were about visual acuity and light levels, not reading.
    If I remember rightly, reading speed is affected by light levels above threshold,
    just not a lot. In fact, Tinker didn't control for lighting level, at least prior
    to his 1940 book. While writing it he evidently became aware of Luckiesh's work
    on reading. He claims in the introduction he will address Luckiesh, and then doesn't.
    He also brags that he doesn't control for illumination\u2014they were in bright
    rooms with daylight, darker with light bulbs etc. He says that it's \"realistic\".
    So much for scientific controls. \r\n\r\nI think the main thing fouling up Tinker's
    results is his weird speed of reading test, though there are other more minor
    confounds, including illumination level and distance from the eye to the page.
    \r\n\r\nIn a private letter to Tinker\u2014Sutherland quotes it in her PhD thesis
    on Tinker\u2014Luckiesh dismisses prior work on reading because it didn't control
    for illumination. He doesn't say \"this means you, buster\" but he may as well
    have. Luckiesh also said he didn't like public disputation, but rather to let
    the work speak for itself. \r\n\r\nEvidently, it didn't speak for itself, because
    this turned out to work to Tinker's advantage. Luckiesh didn't write on the topic
    after his retirement in 1949, and Tinker, who was younger went on attack Luckiesh,
    with the Legibility of Print (1963) being the work most people looked to to summarize
    previous work.   "
  created: '2011-07-16 01:21:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Bill. And here I was thinking that Tinker was simply too narrow in
    his focus, whereas his failure to even control for illumination suggests he was
    doing sloppy science.
  created: '2011-07-16 02:00:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Bill] \u201CThe mid thirties debates were about visual acuity and light
    levels, not reading.\u201D\r\n\r\nBill, I wonder if you meant \u201Cnot typography\u201D
    in the above.\r\n\r\nTinker\u2019s first (to my knowledge) critical comment on
    Luckiesh\u2019s work is in 1934 in \u201CIllumination and the Hygiene of Reading\u201D
    [Journal of Educational Psychology / 1934 / Volume 25 / 665-680]. The first sustained
    effort to question the value of Luckiesh and Moss's work is in 1935 in \u201CCautions
    Concerning Illumination Intensities Used For Reading\u201D [American Journal of
    Optometry / 1935 / Volume 12 / Number 2 / 43-51]. \r\n\r\nLuckiesh and Moss\u2019s
    <em>The Science of Seeing</em> was published in 1937. It contains a chapter on
    \u201CReading as a Task,\u201D which includes a foray into questions of typography.
    In Tinker\u2019s review of this book he extends the criticism of the Luckiesh
    and Moss work to their material on typography. I suspect that it is the discussion
    of typography in <em>The Science of Seeing</em> that lead Linotype to link up
    Luckiesh and Moss, probably before the Tinker review came out in 1938. I haven\u2019t
    been able to locate a personal copy of the book or access a library copy, but
    I am able to deduce some of what it contains from google books snippet view.\r\n\r\nThe
    Tinker review includes this statement: \u201CThe failure to consider many important
    contributions from other laboratories weakens the book considerably, especially
    in the discussions of legibility of print and factors in hygienic illumination.\u201D\r\n\r\nIn
    two articles in 1945 / 1946 The reliability and validity of blink rate as a criteria
    becomes front and centre. This is after Luckiesh had challenged Tinker in a letter
    to prove that speed of reading is a criterion of ease of reading."
  created: '2011-07-16 03:32:53'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "From the Italian Wikipedia (primary source of human knowledge): ;-)\r\n\r\n\xABItalian
    language, unlike English, does not have two different words to describe the legibility
    of calligraphy or of a typeface (legibility) from the reading fluency as a function
    of linguistic structure (readability). The same text may be legible but not readable\xBB.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    very likely that \u2013 if this is the main concept expressed by \u201Creadability\u201D
    you find it expressed in italian with \xABcomprensibilit\xE0\xBB, which is to
    say \xABintelligible\xBB or \xABunderstandable\xBB.\r\n\r\nThe fact that the notion
    of readability as ease of reading, which is a specific meaning, was introduced
    by an englishman may explain the reason we do not have it in italian. I still
    don\u2019t understand why it causes so much unrest here at Typophile\u2026 :P"
  created: '2011-07-30 18:12:57'
date: '2011-07-11 18:07:22'
node_type: forum
title: Readability

---
