---
author:
  name: kosal
  picture: 109775
body: "I'm glad there's research and effort, but wonder if the brief could've translated
  into a more pleasing design, like how Frutiger handled OCR-B.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.studiostudio.nl/en/project-dyslexie/"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Ugh\u2026they could have just made a few tweaks to News Gothic and got the
    same effect without making the font so damned hideous."
  created: '2011-07-12 01:08:34'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: oh cripes. The typographic answer to orthopedic shoes, but even uglier.
  created: '2011-07-12 03:58:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Note there is no testing, just a bald claim. This kind of stuff seems to
    come out several times a year, with no testing or bogus testing. And none of them
    seem to have done their homework. '
  created: '2011-07-12 05:03:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hey, there was \"testing.\" They found that dyslexics made fewer mistakes
    with this typeface than they did with Arial! OMG!  :)\r\n\r\nOf course, this is
    hardly surprising, and one actually expects that many, perhaps most typefaces
    would perform better than Arial in this regard.\r\n\r\nIt didn't improve reading
    speed, btw.\r\n\r\nSo there is no particular validated reason to choose this typeface
    over, say, any other humanist sans.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-07-12 07:55:44'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: "Don't forget about Natascha Frensch - http://typophile.com/node/2527\r\n\r\nCorrect
    me if I'm wrong, I was told that Rosemary Sassoon's [[http://www.identifont.com/show?GUA|Sassoon]]
    was designed for dyslexics as well.\r\n\r\n\r\nSB"
  created: '2011-07-12 15:01:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Speaking of fugly, here's something I developed back in the New Typography
    days, but never got around to publishing.\r\nThe premise was to design a typeface
    where every glyph was unique to the typeface.\r\n(Yeah, I didn't get around to
    figuring out I and O.)\r\nWhat a great theory for a dyslexic font!\r\nShould I
    release it with the name Dyslexia?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dys_4532.png]"
  created: '2011-07-12 15:07:21'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Being dyslexic, I can tell you from personal experience that there is no
    way to develop a font that will solve problems with reading. I don't know if dyslexic
    think in pictures or not. I thought everyone did that. I can tell you that one
    of the main components of the \"condition\" is that things get re-ordered in the
    short term memory. I can't see the shape of the letters making any difference.
    I found this font to be mostly just irritating.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2011-07-12 15:24:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry James, I was poking fun at the (no doubt well-meaning) makers of fonts-for-dyslexics,
    not at the readers.
  created: '2011-07-12 15:30:09'
- author:
    name: Matthew Dixon
    picture: 114855
  body: "I sit firmly on the fence in terms of the usefulness or otherwise of these
    \u2013 I'm not dyslexic \u2013 but surely a typeface with a purpose, no matter
    how misguided we think it may be, is far more valid than one that looks pretty.
    Sheesh ... there are plenty of those already.\r\n\r\nAnyway, Dr Rob Hillier has
    done quite a lot of interesting research into this field, and designed a typeface
    for dyselics called Sylexiad. The less generous among us may say 'wow, this is
    hideous' but then, that's hardly the point ... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.robsfonts.com/sylexhome.html\r\nhttp://www.robsfonts.com/Resources/Ultrabold_21.pdf"
  created: '2011-07-12 16:37:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Matthew, thanks. I looked at and read a little about Sylexiad. I was surprised,
    given how often this idea is tried, that it actually seems to have something to
    recommend it. '
  created: '2011-07-12 17:07:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026that's hardly the point\u2026 </em>\r\n\r\nBut it is.\r\nIt stigmatizes
    the abnormal with ugliness, to put it bluntly.\r\nFurthermore, it assumes that
    there is no readability benefit in a professionally polished (which you deride
    as \"pretty\") execution.\r\nAnd it privileges the idea that good intentions trump
    mere functionality\u2014i.e. there may be many already existing typefaces, designed
    with other criteria than readability for dyslexics, that would perform just as
    well if not better, but the scientist with the funding to make a New Font For
    The Reading Challenged can conveniently ignore those.\r\n\r\nJason Smith has shown
    that it is possible to have the best of both worlds, with Fontsmith's Mencap typeface."
  created: '2011-07-12 17:13:09'
- author:
    name: Matthew Dixon
    picture: 114855
  body: "<em>... stigmatizes the abnormal with ugliness ...</em> \r\n\r\nNot meaning
    to come over all 'form follows function', but our notions of what is ugly or beautiful
    shouldn't come into it if it helps someone to read (and perhaps, not being able
    to read effectively is more stigmatizing than being lumbered with an ugly typeface?).
    \r\n\r\nNick, you're right - the Mencap typeface is beautiful, but it addresses
    a completely different issue (learning disability vs dyslexia), and it does not
    address the 'needs' of a dyslexic readership (if we are to agree that a typeface
    can do this anyway). \r\n\r\nIt's not about designers ignoring the tried-and-tested
    (i.e. for non-dyslexic audiences) formula - the research suggests that there is
    a fundamental need for characters to not follow conventional lines - ruling out
    most typefaces already in existence.\r\n\r\nI was being deliberately glib when
    I derided pretty execution, of course there's no reason why these shouldn't be
    professional and polished (and yes, even beautiful) typefaces. But we're all looking
    at them from a different perspective. "
  created: '2011-07-12 17:44:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> - the research suggests that there is a fundamental need for characters
    to not follow conventional lines - ruling out most typefaces already in existence.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    the research, the theory.\r\nThe theory argues against symmetrical and transformably-identical
    shapes in simple sans serifs.\r\nBut there are gazillions of typefaces which already
    follow that principle (it's inherent in the traditional chirographic, serifed
    oldstyle), which have not been researched or tested.\r\nIn the mass, already existing
    typefaces can hardly be called conventional. One would expect they follow a bell
    curve of conventionality. Quite apart from most typefaces in existence, there
    are a substantial number that might be appropriate.\r\n\r\nIf I was designing
    a typeface for this readership from scratch, I would experiment with clean shapes,
    then varying asymmetric distribution of weight, and with various arrangements
    of \"some serifs\" (e.g. as in TheMix).\r\n\r\nBut has anyone ever tested TheMix
    for readability?\r\nNo, they test Arial, and then take off on their own tangent.\r\n\r\nAs
    Thomas says, what about the humanist sans faces?\r\nCompared with Arial, they
    are unconventional.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-12 18:22:35'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Nick, no worries. I thought it was funny. Your Dyslexic font is interesting,
    by the way. \r\n\r\nAs to the theory, I wish them luck and hope it works, but
    I have my doubts. \r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2011-07-13 03:29:04'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "For those who didn\u2019t stumble across it by accident (as I did):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ilo.gw.utwente.nl/ilo/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=32:master-thesis-leeuw&catid=9:theses&Itemid=4\r\n\r\nThere
    is a link to his thesis at the bottom of the page."
  created: '2011-07-13 03:58:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Yet another example of <a href="http://typophile.com/node/83097">typography
    as a science</a>. Nor would I call it bogus.
  created: '2011-07-13 14:15:24'
- author:
    name: Matthew Dixon
    picture: 114855
  body: "<em>The theory</em> (backed up by research of varying degrees of trustworthiness)
    <em>argues against symmetrical and transformably identical shapes in simple sans
    serifs...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but our understanding of what is transformably identical
    is limited to our own perception - how identical does identical have to be before
    it becomes problematic to that particular audience? Is stress enough?\r\n\r\nAll
    I'm saying is, I'm not (along with 90-95% of the rest of the world) the best person
    to comment on the readability of Dyslexie or Sylexiad. I'm simply not the target
    audience. And <em>if</em> the do help (and it's a big if), dismissing them as
    ugly seems a bit much...  "
  created: '2011-07-13 14:21:26'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "When we're putting it down as \"ugly\", though, we're also putting it down
    as ignoring some of the principles of typography that have been developed over
    centuries. I want to avoid a semantics argument, but it's my understanding that
    the primary concern of this typeface is legibility \u2014 the ability to distinguish
    between individual letterforms. The researchers who developed Dyslexie decided
    that the best way to do this is to emphasize the differences between characters,
    rather than make them follow the same rational construction. However, they accomplished
    this by applying the warp tool to a rationally constructed neo-grotesque\r\n\r\nMany
    of the principles they \"discovered\" to aid legibility have been used by type
    designers for centuries, just more subtly. What we're arguing is that Dyslexie
    and other psychologist-developed typefaces do not accomplish their goals any better
    than many humanist typefaces do, and when a typeface has no sense of balance (as
    Dyslexie does not), then it loses readability \u2014 i.e. the ability to read
    it over long periods of time without experiencing eye fatigue."
  created: '2011-07-13 14:38:57'
- author:
    name: Matthew Dixon
    picture: 114855
  body: "It loses readability <em>to me</em>. But it's not <em>for me</em>, and it
    may or may not be highly readable to it's target audience. The principles of typography
    that have developed over centuries are not principles that have taken any dyslexic
    readership into account.\r\n\r\nTo my eyes, Dyslexie might be ugly, but (again)
    that's hardly the point ..."
  created: '2011-07-13 15:02:13'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "See also:\r\n\r\nKlein, R.M. & McMullen, P. (1999). <em>Converging Methods
    for Understanding Reading and Dyslexia</em>. Cambridge: MIT Press "
  created: '2011-07-13 15:34:38'
- author:
    name: vilbel
    picture: 122200
  body: Why not just test a lot of different typefaces on dyslectics? Could've been
    very interesting, also as a possible starting point for developing a typeface
    especially suited for dyslectics.
  created: '2011-07-13 22:34:40'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>It loses readability to me. But it's not for me, and it may or may not
    be highly readable to it's target audience</em>\r\n\r\nIt seems to be a common
    misconception that target readerships are separated groups (e.g. of non-dyslectics
    vs. dyslectics, visually impaired vs. normal vision people ...).\r\n\r\nUnless
    you want to produce and use multiple versions of each sign, notice, book, etc.
    a typeface that performs better for a minority but worse for the majority is useless."
  created: '2011-07-14 11:04:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Matthew, go get 'em.\r\nDon't let the fashion-mongers slow you down.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-14 14:51:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I may have been unfair - the emphasis on protecting intellectual property
    in this face may have been to prevent imitations which lack some of the important
    beneficial features of it, rather than an aim to get rich. But that is the impression
    created when this issue is placed front and center.
  created: '2011-07-14 15:42:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'There are different questions here. One is whether introducing more asymmetry
    produces a face that those with dyslexia like better. A second is whether the
    asymmetry actually helps dyslexics read better. A third is whether such an asymmetrical
    face has to be ugly. The answer to the first, with Sylexiad, seems to be "yes."
    I don''t think the second, key question has a good answer. I''m pretty sure the
    answer to the third is "no".     '
  created: '2011-07-14 17:15:51'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: Do people with dyslexia have the same difficulties reading hand written texts
    as with printed ones?
  created: '2011-07-14 17:23:18'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "First of all, dyslexia is a diverse condition. Second, it can affect how
    the printed, written and spoken word is processed. I can't speak for all of those
    with dyslexia, but this has been my experience. Third, this theory is flawed.
    I don't care how much of the alphabet someone has behind their name, their theory
    is incomplete, at best. The determining factor is how a child is taught to read.
    That is the direction research should take. But, if we must make a font we think
    will help children with dyslexia learn how to cope with the printed word, please,
    let's make it one that has some aesthetic appeal. As dyslexics we have our wires
    crossed. We are not blind or stupid. \r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\nDid I mention that having
    dyslexia makes typing a pain? Left and right don't have a lot of meaning and spelling
    is troublesome. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-15 03:53:10'
- author:
    name: gusnicklos
    picture: 121584
  body: I love the concept. I'm dyslexic and agree with some of the findings. I do
    see type 3 dimensionally. Things aren't that lumpy through my eyes though.
  created: '2011-07-15 22:39:11'
- author:
    name: Rob Mientjes
    picture: 111251
  body: "All I see is a severely tortured Arial, waiting for the killing blow.\r\n\r\nWith
    that amount of research, all they could do is mutilate Arial in a font editor?
    That's the lazy way out. Like many others in the thread, I think something can
    be made \u2014 for that group of dyslexics who suffer from the symptoms stated
    in the Twente University research \u2014 that is both more legible for dyslexics
    <em>and</em> more attractive as a design. As Nick says, \"It stigmatizes the abnormal
    with ugliness, to put it bluntly.\" I think it can be done better.\r\n\r\n(Note
    that I'm not throwing myself into the mix: I am a decorative designer, focused
    more on beauty as a function than legibility as the sole goal. I'm not a technical
    researcher. I like researching by throwing things out there and seeing what sticks.)"
  created: '2011-07-16 12:00:30'
- author:
    name: lukejonesme
    picture: 122321
  body: "I severely doubt mainstream media is going to use that font in anything,
    so don't worry about it.\r\n\r\nSorry, I know I'm a buzz kill but there are <em>so
    many</em> terrible typefaces out there making bald claims, it's all just water
    under the bridge. As long as a client doesn't come along and ask me to use that,
    I'll survive."
  created: '2011-07-16 14:12:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, but if a client asks you to design for dyslexia, what do you do?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-16 14:19:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Depends on the context. Textbook = function trumps aesthetics = use a font
    that you personally might find \u201Cterrible\u201D (subjective) but your audience
    may appreciate. And you never know, if asked to look at a specimen sheet, persons
    with dyslexia might find it \u201Cugly\u201D but after reading it for a few hours
    and noticing a significant difference in their performance they may start to like
    it. In it\u2019s <em>function</em> lies it\u2019s beauty."
  created: '2011-07-16 17:25:04'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Function never trumps aesthetics. Aesthetics is about appropriate design.
    Not pretty design.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to type, literacy, readability and legibility,
    ugliness is very much a factor. What do we really mean by ugly anyhow? (Who even
    asks that question?) With type, it surely isn't just the opposite of \"pretty\".
    Good design stopped being about decorating functional things with flowery doodads
    a about a century ago.\r\n \r\nAesthetics have a real function. It isn't just
    about making things pretty. It is about making them work. There are things which,
    on a fundamental level, are either ugly or attractive which just about everyone
    in the world would agree are either ugly or attractive. What is the reason for
    that? I think it is something hard wired into the brain and is part of how we
    make sense of the world around us (in a similar way we use analogies like \"Hardwired\").
    A tidy room is more attractive than a messy one because it works. You can find
    a place to sit down for starters. If you say you prefer messy rooms, that probably
    means you like the rooms you yourself have made messy because you understand the
    order things are in and they feel more like they belong to you after you've imposed
    you own \"order\".\r\n \r\n<cite>If </cite>the disambiguation of characters in
    the font this thread is about is helpful to anyone, imagine how helpful it would
    be if it wasn't achieved in such a sloppy manner. \r\n\r\nWhere and for what would
    this font be used? And how often? Will there be some sort of literary ghetto for
    dyslexics where they all get to read like \"normal people\" thanks to science,
    but will unfortunately be even worse off when faced with the other 99.999% of
    printed matter that will still be set in traditional fonts because they will look
    strange to them? Or, will \"normal people\" have their reading abilities degraded
    by being forced to read only this stuff? Will packaging in Canada be printed in
    English, French and Dyslexic? \r\n \r\nI think that 'science' as applied to typography
    is way off the mark 82% of the time. People expect to be able to design a magic
    bullet in the form of typeface to solve some problem that may in the end have
    nothing to do with typefaces per se. Seems to me that it's a matter of processing
    more than what's being processed. Perhaps some of the time it is a question of
    how children are taught to read. I can remember having a very difficult time telling
    the difference between 'b' and 'd'. (and this was equally true with my own hand
    writing (printing) as with my Dick and Jane readers, so right off the bat, I say
    the whole thing smells like BS) I was a kid with an active imagination. After
    giving up on trying to read an assignment, but still staring at the page to look
    busy, I'd start making up stories about the letters on the page. They really were
    characters. I saw that 'B' and 'b' face the same way but the the 'd' faces the
    opposite direction than \"D\", his \"parent. Little 'd' was a rebel. Could pick
    <cite>him</cite> out in a crowd... And that's one little strategy I came up with.
    Certainly not anything ground breaking. It's just a personal anecdote about how
    I got over a hurdle. But, it is an example of a different approach to disambiguation
    that doesn't require such an ugly-arsed font. (It would seem I should have done
    very well indeed in grade school, what with all those mimeographed homework assignments.
    They must have been a breeze to read through.)\r\n \r\nMaybe it is as simple as
    not using a font as devoid of character as Arial or Helvetica, as was suggested
    earlier, but we may never know. Why is it that folks with next to no knowledge
    of typography and design apparently prefer go out and invent new wheels that try
    and understand the ones that are already here. \r\n\r\nSo, I ask again... Can
    dyslexics read hand written (printed) text any better than Arial? It certainly
    doesn't suffer from the same lack of distinction between characters as Arial.
    Right?\r\n\r\n \r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-17 03:57:01'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@Hrant, <cite>Ah, but if a client asks you to design for dyslexia, what do
    you do?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou could supply some good typography set in a half-ways
    decent humanist font. Or, you could sell some snake oil.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-17 04:03:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me those two choices would be the same.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-17 04:10:04'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: Then you're the man for the job.:p
  created: '2011-07-17 04:33:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@russelm:\r\n<cite>Good design stopped being about decorating functional
    things with flowery doodads a about a century ago.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but that
    doesn't mean that aesthetics and functional design are one and the same.\r\n\r\nA
    thing can look ugly because it was put together in a hurry and still work.\r\n\r\nAnd
    something can look beautiful and not work - and that is changed not one whit because
    fashions have changed from rococo to Swedish Modern.\r\n\r\nAesthetics deals with
    what we see on the outside, and function has to do with what's doing the work
    on the inside. The inner workings of many mechanical devices do have a functional
    beauty, but for functional reasons - keeping dust out of the gears - they're still
    covered.\r\n\r\nThe typeface for dyslexics under discussion does indeed seem to
    have been thrown together quickly. A typeface could have its characteristics and
    still also look more like a conventional typeface - for example, there seems no
    reason to dispense with serifs. But the asymmetries that the function requires
    likely <em>will</em> compromise the attractiveness of a typeface somewhat, even
    so.\r\n\r\n@russelm:\r\n<cite>Or, will \"normal people\" have their reading abilities
    degraded by being forced to read only this stuff? Will packaging in Canada be
    printed in English, French and Dyslexic?</cite>\r\n\r\nI suspect that the goal
    would be to have textbooks in the elementary grades all be printed in dyslexic-safe
    type, so that dyslexia would no longer compromise the process of learning to read
    for its victims.\r\n\r\nOnce they have learned to read well, then problems with
    the shapes of individual letters would no longer obtrude, since they would be
    reading whole words rather than making out one letter at a time to try to sound
    out what word they are seeing."
  created: '2011-07-17 05:13:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Then you're the man for the job.:p\r\n\r\nI just wish I had a dyslexic
    alter ego.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-17 05:14:36'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>I just wish I had a dyslexic alter ego. ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nOh Dog, that's
    funny."
  created: '2011-07-17 06:04:38'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@quadibloc <cite>I suspect that the goal would be to have textbooks in the
    elementary grades all be printed in dyslexic-safe type, so that dyslexia would
    no longer compromise the process of learning to read for its victims.</cite>\r\n\r\nBarking
    up the wrong tree. The fundamental geometry that makes it possible to confuse
    a 'b' with a 'd' (for example) remains the same. It's possible for a kid to confuse
    the two letters in his own hand writing. How is a font with some randomly generated
    irregularities any an improvement? Having been there, I don't believe there is
    any merit at all in this approach.  Some paradigm shifting required. \r\n\r\nI
    very much doubt that improvements in reading accuracy (if any in actuality) due
    to the disambiguation of letters has anything what soever to do with the ugliness
    of the font. That is just sloppiness, which comes across to me and, I hope to
    other people, if they take a second to think about it, as a sign of disrespect
    and condescension in the very same way that the well meaning people who supplied
    those appalling orthopedic shoes of days gone by figured \"gimpy\" kids are --
    Well, they're \"gimpy\" and don't <cite>need</cite> attractive footwear. The same
    effect (of each letter being distinct from others) could have been achieved in
    a decently designed font - And largely it has been achieved in a very large number
    of existing fonts, including many of those in text books used to teach children
    to read (though now-a-days, that isn't always the case. Most of the text books
    and workbooks  kids are given by their schools these days are absolute crap. That
    anyone could learn to read from them is remarkable. Children are exposed to so
    many appallingly badly designed and written text books and workbooks in schools
    that is a real shame on our generation.) \r\n\r\n... \"Victims\"???\r\n\r\nreally?
    \r\n\r\nVictims of sausage-mill like school systems perhaps, but so is everyone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-17 06:25:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@russelm:\r\n<cite>How is a font with some randomly generated irregularities
    any an improvement?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it is true that the irregularities would
    have to be the same in all reading material. So one typeface, or one family of
    typefaces, would presumably have to be used in <em>all</em> the textbooks used
    in the early grades, until students master reading.\r\n\r\nThe idea isn't simply
    \"use Typeface X\", it's \"change the fundamental letterforms in the alphabet\",
    so that the irregularities of the Dyslexie font are added to the definition of
    \"what makes a b\" and \"what makes a d\".\r\n\r\nSince dyslexia isn't a problem
    where the Chinese writing system is used, a writing system reform for countries
    using the Latin alphabet would presumably be effective in eliminating dyslexia
    as a problem in those countries. Thus, I have to presume that writing system reform,
    at least in effect, and not simply an \"orthopedic\" typeface, is the goal here."
  created: '2011-07-17 16:19:59'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Who says dyslexia isn't a problem with Chinese writing systems? \r\n\r\nhttp://www.nature.com/nchina/2007/070131/full/nchina.2007.070131-4.html\r\nhttp://www.tomspender.com/2011/03/dyslexia-in-china/\r\nhttp://www.straightdope.com/columns/read/2591/is-it-possible-to-be-dyslexic-in-chinese\r\n\r\nJust
    a small difference in perception. In china they call it idiocy. Idiots are idiots.
    you can't help them, hence it's not a problem worthy of investigation."
  created: '2011-07-17 19:20:30'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Is it easier or harder to teach, say, kana to dyslexics than non-dyslexics?
    (Assuming that dyslexics are a uniform group...)
  created: '2011-07-17 22:28:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@russelm:\r\nThe articles you cited, which do show that a condition analogous
    to dyslexia exists within the Chinese linguistic community, also note that that
    condition is distinct from what we know as dyslexia, because it involves a deficit
    in a different part of the brain.\r\n\r\nThe two conditions should not be given
    the same name; that is a violation of specific etiology, a useful rule for defining
    medical conditions, because the cure for a disease usually depends strongly upon
    its cause."
  created: '2011-07-17 23:40:01'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\r\n\r\nYou can't insist on an absolute adherence to a precise definition
    of a word in one breath and let words mean what ever you like with another\r\n\r\n\r\nDyslexia
    is not a disease any more than pregnancy is one. \r\n\r\nnor is it a medical condition.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-18 01:35:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I know for a fact that you <em>can</em> get infected with dyslexia\r\nif
    you reply to an email where the \"b\" and \"d\" have been swapped...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-18 01:42:40'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "yes, but don't tell that to quadibloc \r\n\r\n:o)"
  created: '2011-07-18 03:56:59'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "<em> Dyslexia is not a disease any more than pregnancy is one. </em>\r\n\r\n<em>nor
    is it a medical condition. </em>\r\n\r\nThank you Russellm :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-18 16:23:36'
- author:
    name: Matthew Dixon
    picture: 114855
  body: "<em>It seems to be a common misconception that target readerships are separated
    groups (e.g. of non-dyslectics vs. dyslectics, visually impaired vs. normal vision
    people ...).</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Unless you want to produce and use multiple versions
    of each sign, notice, book, etc. a typeface that performs better for a minority
    but worse for the majority is useless.</em>\r\n\r\nThat logic is totally flawed.
    Why bother making wheelchair ramps if most people can walk up stairs? In fact,
    why bother making wheelchairs at all? Why bother doing anything if it only helps
    a minority? What about braille? \r\n\r\n<em>Function never trumps aesthetics.
    Aesthetics is about appropriate design. Not pretty design.</em>\r\n\r\nFunction
    should trump everything - aesthetics included (and aesthetics is not about appropriate
    design from a functionality point of view) - otherwise we're just in the business
    of gilding lilies.  "
  created: '2011-07-18 16:28:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "It has been said that design is at its best when you don't notice it.\r\n\r\nYears
    ago, I was watching a bank teller doing some calculations on a Victor (I think)
    desk calculator when I noticed a strange ridge leaning over the numbers display
    on the machine. After a bit of thinking on my part, the penny dropped. It kept
    light from reflecting off the display into the user's eyes.\r\n\r\nThe tellers
    had never noticed this feature before."
  created: '2011-07-18 22:27:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<em>It has been said that design is at its best when you don't notice it.</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://gmunch.home.pipeline.com/typo-L/misc/ward.htm\">Beatrice Warde.
    The Crystal Goblet</a>. In my opinion, one of the most important pieces on typographic
    philosophy ever written."
  created: '2011-07-19 01:36:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "... by a cheerleader.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-19 03:52:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Dyslexia is something which is studied by medical researchers in order to
    find its cause and its treatment. It is currently believed that it may be a genetic
    disorder. It is recognized as a learning disability.\r\n\r\nThus, if treatment
    and cure were possible, they would be desirable. To find these, however, a specific
    cause is required, so specific etiology is applicable.\r\n\r\nOf course, blindness
    is a disability, but it has many causes; if the term dyslexia is applied generally
    to all reading disorders, not merely to the best-known one, the one involving
    parity-reversals of glyphs, and there are many reading disorders, and there is
    a need for a general term, the point that it \"is not a disease\" has validity,
    and new terms would be needed for the different medical conditions that are lumped
    together under that term.\r\n\r\nThe purpose of language is to communicate data
    about the real world, so as to coordinate human activities effectively, whether
    medical research or hunting. Compromising that purpose in order to make people
    feel good is not a good idea.\r\n\r\nAlthough, admittedly, social interaction
    is another ancient purpose for language."
  created: '2011-07-19 03:56:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "A [[http://www.ctv.ca/CTVNews/Health/20110729/new-typeface-font-dyslexic-readers-110730/|news
    article]] about this typeface has finally appeared, from which I discover...\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    font is being marketed to schools and businesses for between 145 and 1,900 euros.</cite>"
  created: '2011-07-30 20:05:25'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: Jesus Murphy.
  created: '2011-07-31 07:04:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "If this typeface looks \u201Cbad\u201D or at least novel, perhaps it could
    end up supporting Diemand-Yauman et al. (2010) and his typographic disfluency
    hypothesis. If someone were to conduct a field study on the effects of implementing
    Dyslexie for reading materials, disfluency could pose a potential confound. An
    interesting problem."
  created: '2011-07-31 19:22:53'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "<em>A news article about this typeface has finally appeared, from which I
    discover...</em>\r\n\r\n<em>The font is being marketed to schools and businesses
    for between 145 and 1,900 euros.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nJust goes to show that there
    are still suckers being born...\r\n\r\nI would love to see the raw data on these
    studies. Find out what their test perameters are, their use of control groups,
    age groups involved,  the margin of error, etc. They are still using too many
    terms like could, might, and possibly which suggests that their results are still
    within their margin of error and not conclusive. \r\n\r\nI still don't believe
    it..."
  created: '2011-08-01 01:29:22'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ Matthew Dixon : \"aesthetics.\"\r\n \r\nYou are completely missing the
    point, or perhaps you didn't read the second sentence you quoted? By my definition,
    function is not actually separate from aesthetics. A lovely looking beauty of
    a tractor that can't pull shyte is really only a beauty of a tractor if the point
    of the tractors design is something other than pulling shyte.\r\n \r\nI am talking
    about aesthetics at a more basic & fundamental level than surface decoration.
    You or I may think a thing, i.e., a font, is ugly or attractive, but why do we
    think that? Why does your brain think that.  What is going on in there from an
    evolutionary perspective.  Yes, you live in a culture and therefore have acquired
    the tastes of that culture. However, broadly speaking, all people agree to a great
    extent on what is attracting and what is ugly (repellent). Why? If you can answer
    that question then I think you will have to agree, aesthetics are an aspect function
    and have a function to you as an organism and as a member of a society. If he
    function of a good hair-doo is to make you look sexy and the end result is that
    look and feel sexy, the the design is successful on all levels. It has a function.
    My definition and understanding includes the the fact that the lovely spinning
    gears in a machine are covered by safety guides... I used to be a welder. I actually
    made safety guards for truly magnificent and very rapidly spinning gears on industrial
    equipment that could rip a person's arm off if left exposed, so I appreciate better
    than most people here that taken as a whole safety guards improve the aesthetics
    of machines no matter how nice the inner Workings are. \r\n \r\nI don't think
    anyone has any issues with designing things to improve the lives of people who
    need, or could benefit from special accommodations. That isn't the point either.
    Why agree to ramps that are the result of some vague good intention or the begrudging
    compliance to building codes when you can have something that <cite>actually</cite>
    improves life for some people without making it worse for others.\r\n \r\nIn the
    building some of my relatives live in, the management installed a prefabricated
    aluminum ramp down the steps from the front door to the lobby. It takes up half
    the width stairs and about a third of the floor space of the lobby. It may or
    may not conform to the letter of the building code (depending on where you put
    you measuring tape), but certainly not to the intent of it. There is built-in
    planter between the ramp's railing and the elevator, with the result that the
    gap between them is narrower than what the ADA says is needed for wheel chairs.
    Not to mention the added dangers to kids, the elderly and clumsy people from all
    the sharp metal angles on the structure, the loud discordant banging and clanging
    from kids playing on it and the affect the eyesore in the lobby will have on their
    property values. This so called solution to a problem has made life worse for
    everyone in the building, including those it was intended to help. The real solution
    would have been a built-in ramp. it would have cost more, but there is tax money
    for this kind of stuff, and it's amortized over the life of the building, so so
    what. Cost isn't an issue. Actual functionality is. \r\n \r\nPutting shyte out
    there, well intended or otherwise, and declaring a problem solved is just disrespectful
    of process and end users and should not be defended or tolerated. In my very humble
    but generally correct opinion. \r\n \r\nI am not anti-science by any stretch.
    There is, however simply too much shoddy science being done for anyone to just
    accept something like this simply because it's authors have letters behind their
    names. The main ingredient in any PhD is persistence. Not intelligence. Read the
    feckin papers for Christ sake. Scales will fall from your eyes. \r\n\r\nI think
    the whole premise behind this font is wrong and that they proceeded without sufficient
    knowledge of typography, how reading works and common sense. It is very easy to
    simply (and even unintentionally) ask the wrong questions or to telegraph desired
    responses to participants, resulting in skewed results in favour of the outcome
    you were looking for. (I've seen it myself. I could not tell if it was deliberate
    at the time or not, but I suspect that there were particular interests at stake
    and consciously or otherwise, observations were skewed.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-01 01:42:13'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "The study report including a full description of the data can be found here:\r\nhttp://www.ilo.gw.utwente.nl/ilo/attachments/032_Masterthesis_Leeuw.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    think the actual study and the conclusions from the study are reasonable. The
    study showed that dyslexic readers read Arial at 80 wpm with 1.7 errors and read
    Dyslexie at 79 wpm with 1.3 errors. Non-dyslexic readers read both fonts at 93
    wpm with 0.7 errors with Arial and 1.0 errors with Dyslexie. Neither the speed
    difference nor error difference (nor interaction effect with non-dyslexic readers)
    was statistically reliable.\r\n\r\nThe interpretation of the study on the other
    hand has been quite unreasonable. I can\u2019t imagine why a non-reliable 0.4
    words per minute reduction in errors is being touted so strongly why a non-reliable
    1 word per minute reduction in reading speed isn\u2019t.~\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-01 14:31:47'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I have a serious question. What is the appropriate comparison if a future
    developer of a typeface for dyslexic readers wants to demonstrate the typeface\u2019s
    effectiveness? Arial seems like a reasonable choice since, I believe, it is recommended
    by some dyslexic organizations. Although I am certain that Verdana would soundly
    beat Arial in most any reading performance test. I would propose Verdana as a
    comparison, though that is somewhat arbitrary based only on my knowledge that
    Verdana performs well on performance tests - other not-specifically-dyslexic typefaces
    may perform better than Verdana. Alternatively, such a typeface could be compared
    against the handful of other typefaces that were designed specifically for dyslexic
    readers? Thoughts?"
  created: '2011-08-01 14:35:06'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "<em>unecdotalism (using the non-dismissive definition of that term).</em>\r\n\r\nI
    pride myself on my vocabulary. Somehow I missed that term. Worse, Google doesn't
    like it. Could you put a definition to unecdotalism? \r\n\r\nAs far as testing
    and subjects is concerned, another issue is that the effects of dyslexia are a
    range. Each person is dyslexic to a different degree."
  created: '2011-08-01 15:33:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, I meant <strong>a</strong>necdotalism!  :-/\r\n(Fixed.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-01 16:21:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I am certain that Verdana would soundly beat\r\n> Arial in most any reading
    performance test.\r\n\r\nI am certain of the opposite (once apparent size is factored
    in).\r\nVerdana is very wide, unduly wasting retinal acuity.\r\n\r\nThe question
    of what font to compare to cannot be answered until\r\nwe can properly measure
    reading performance. We cannot properly\r\nmeasure reading performance without
    a small army of people who\r\ndon't know they're being tested. Very hard. What
    we can do without\r\nneeding an army is figure out what letterform features help
    reading.\r\nBut test subject oblivion is still highly critical. Also critical
    is to have\r\ntests designed by people unafraid of anecdotalism (using the non-\r\ndismissive
    definition of that term).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-01 16:21:23'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: Maybe I'm not the only person that is dyslexic here... ;)
  created: '2011-08-01 17:29:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My inclination would be to suggest that Century Schoolbook should be used
    as the baseline for any comparison of how effective a typeface is for reading.\r\n\r\nThis,
    of course, comes from its use in the infamous Ginn and Company readers, which
    contained sentences like \"See Spot run\", which compared unfavorably with the
    contents of earlier readers such as the McGuffey readers in terms of vocabulary
    level."
  created: '2011-08-01 17:37:38'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Larson: \u201C\u2026<em>Verdana performs well on performance tests</em>\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nSource?\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>Alternatively,
    such a typeface could be compared against the handful of other typefaces that
    were designed specifically for dyslexic readers? Thoughts?\u201D\r\n\r\nI would
    hazard that if we ran a few more fonts in the same study, any fonts, not just
    ones designed for readers with dyslexia, we would find that there is simply a
    natural variability in performance that can\u2019t be attributed to the specifics
    of any one typeface.\r\n\r\nAnother observation regarding participant\u2019s performance
    and subjective response, I could not determine from reading the paper if they
    were informed as to the nature of the study. In reading Appendix IV, I see participant
    responses stating \u201CThe experimental font\u2026\u201D and \u201CThe special
    font for dyslexics\u2026\u201D. If, prior to testing, they were informed that
    they were going to be reading a special font designed for readers with dyslexia
    it could easily contaminate their data. Certainly, in looking at it from a subjective
    point of view (Figure 7) they would \u201Clike\u201D it more simply knowing that
    someone was trying to do something nice for them. \r\n"
  created: '2011-08-01 21:28:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Also, I have located some existing typefaces which would be suitable for
    use in school textbooks, and which address the needs of dyslexics. However, it
    might be advisable to replace the capital letters by those from a somewhat plainer
    typeface - although the lowercase, at least, is fully legible. The letters b and
    d are very distinct; the letters p and q are also distinct, but I admit I would
    have preferred a larger distinction.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dyslex_4494.jpg]\r\n\r\nThus,
    for your consideration, two ATF typefaces: Tudor Black, and Washington Text.\r\n\r\nFor
    a matching uppercase that is more legible, Kingthings Petrock, for example, could
    be used. Or Final Roman, an obscure free font I ran into that looks very much
    like a Carolingian hand."
  created: '2011-08-01 21:34:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have found a few more choices among existing typefaces. Some are a bit
    too exotic to really be considered for children's first-grade readers, even if
    they are readable:\r\n\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/artistik/|Artistik]]
    and [[http://www.identifont.com/find?font=Lindsay&q=Go|Lindsay]] are two examples
    of well-established typefaces in which the b and d, as well as the p and q, are
    strongly differentiated. Or even [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/devinne/|De
    Vinne]].\r\n\r\nBut something far more conventional - admittedly, with a differentiation
    that perhaps is too subtle - exists.\r\n\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/itc-korinna/|Korinna]]."
  created: '2011-08-01 23:10:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'Actually, although the difference between the p and q is reduced somewhat,
    I''ve found one that already has readable capital letters: [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/ef/weiss-rundgotisch/|Weiss-Rundgotisch]],
    by Elsner and Flake. So we could have our children learning to read with textbooks
    set in this typeface.'
  created: '2011-08-01 23:13:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-02 00:11:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I just spoke with the authour, Renske de Leeuw. She informed me that participants
    were informed about the special nature of the font <strong>after</strong> they
    were tested.
  created: '2011-08-02 13:41:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>[[http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html]]</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    do remember an earlier post by you in which you said that Fraktur was more legible
    than Roman. I tend to disagree with this. However, I will admit that some typefaces
    related to the blackletter or classed as forms of blackletter <strong>are</strong>
    at least as legible as Roman. For example, Jenson's rotunda from his edition of
    the <em>Summa Theologicum</em>.\r\n\r\nAnd so, if future generations of children
    see Spot run in a good rotunda in order to accommodate dyslexics, I shall not
    regard it as a tragedy. Of course, the letterforms need to be compatible with
    Roman, in order that they won't be hindered in reading (older) books in Roman
    type, at least during the transitional period - if the (Latin-alphabet) world
    did change over to rotundas gradually in general because this is what the new
    generation is used to."
  created: '2011-08-02 15:11:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@hrant: http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_trajic.html\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>The Trajic
    notRoman typeface consists of invented glyphs designed to leave an \u201Cimpression\u201D
    of the conventional Latin capitals; the decipherability of its various forms was
    put to the test in a real-world experiment at TypeCon98.</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nDo
    you have a description of this?"
  created: '2011-08-02 17:27:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It wasn't nearly as scientific as the above might indicate...\r\nI basically
    flashed the glyphs during my presentation and for\r\neach asked for a show of
    hands of who felt confident of knowing\r\nwhat the letter was, and then asked
    those what letter they thought\r\nit was. In my defense, I did take notes and
    refine my decisions\r\nbased on the feedback.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-03 01:34:04'
- author:
    name: studiostudio
  body: "Hello Everybody,\r\n\r\nSorry for my poor English. When I started the project
    dyslexie one of mine goals was that no matter how the font looked like as long
    as he worked. With the idea if a wheelchair is ugly, he may not be made ore used?
    I know that the font is restless irregularity for those without dyslexia, and
    he many rules of type design are violated. But I wanted function over esthetics.
    Viewed from a graphic design it's an ugly font. But if you even know how many
    people with dyslexia I have helped here in the Netherlands and Belgium, and gratitude
    I get from people who struggle daily with dyslexia it's definitely worth it.\r\n\r\nThe
    price you mention is for schools and not for individuals. I have sold to individuals
    for a time for a much lower price (below cost) but the businesses and schools
    took so much abuse that I have here in conjunction with Lexima stopped until we
    have found a solution for it. \r\n\r\nAs a graphic designer I find this a very
    interesting discussion I keep track."
  created: '2011-08-04 10:36:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't have time to comment at length yet, but to begin to answer Kevin's
    question, I think that first of all if we are to distinguish what typefaces are
    better for dyslexics with some assurance, the testing must not be of two typefaces
    against one another, and only one test. The key here is to look for understanding
    of the cause of confusion of letters. And this will involve multiple tests involving
    a number of variables and variations.  \r\n\r\nFor example, if the issue is differentiation,
    then any old style, such as Times New Roman, is more highly differentiated than
    a sans like Arial. For example, the b has its serif on the opposite side from
    the bowl, and the d the same side. The top of the b is weighted more heavily,
    and the bottom of the d. The bottom corner of the two letters formed differently,
    etc. \r\n\r\nAlso, if I have heard correctly, \"dyslexia\" is an umbrella term
    that refers to a variety of difficulties in reading, not all of which are the
    same. So again there needs to be more understanding and precision about what is
    being tested. For example, if I understood a brief account rightly, there is dyslexia
    among readers of Chinese, but it is less common, and apparently doesn't involve
    the difficulty in associating sounds and words that is a common difficulty for
    readers of alphabetic languages. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-04 14:58:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But I wanted function over esthetics.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are assuming that
    \"esthetics\" has no readability function for the majority of readers.\r\nYour
    assumption both marginalizes and stigmatizes dyslexics unnecessarily, and derogates
    the function of a polished finish for fluent readers.\r\n\r\nThere is an elegance
    to an instrument that requires skill to master, which is what typefaces are.\r\n\r\n<em>But
    I wanted function over esthetics.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy not have both? Your job is half-finished.
    \r\n\r\nIt's like hastily throwing together the first font for a writing system/language
    that never had one before, and saying sure, they are thrilled with what they have
    at last.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026if a wheelchair is ugly\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThen:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/L-FrameWheelchair_4905.jpg]"
  created: '2011-08-04 18:42:27'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The tests in the paper Kevin referenced should show the benefits of the manipulations
    that were done. Kevin points out the statistical analysis was flawed so the tests
    don't actual reliably demonstrate benefits for the font, as compared to a font
    that doesn't have those manipulations. \r\n\r\nThe motivation for the manipulations
    seems to be loosely related to the Anne Sperling work on the etiology of dyslexia
    in deficits in perceptual noise exclusion, associated with the formation of suboptimal
    perceptual templates or representations in both the auditory (phonological processing)
    and visual domains.\r\n\r\nThe Spirling work is innovative, the theory attractive,
    and the involvement of Mark Seidenberg gives it some weight, but I'm not sure
    how the Sperling theory and the manipulations Renske makes address the error types
    Renske lists in Table 1:1.\r\n\r\nInvestigation of how the perceptual noise exclusion
    / suboptimal templates theory accounts for error types might be a prerequisite
    for intelligently deciding what comparator fonts to use.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-04 19:56:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@enne_son: \u201C<em>Kevin points out the statistical analysis was flawed</em>\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nWhere
    in this thread does Kevin speak about data analysis?"
  created: '2011-08-05 18:09:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Christopher, Kevin address the data analysis in his 1st 1 August post.
  created: '2011-08-05 18:14:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If I understand the post correctly, Kevin doesn't fault the statistical analysis,
    but the conclusions drawn from the results of that analysis. The rate of errors
    in reading was lower, but the reading rate slower, and neither result was big
    enough to achieve \"statistical significance\"\u2014a measure usually taken to
    mean that variations are not simply random. Kevin was questioning how you conclude
    anything positive about the font from these results. It seems to me a pretty convincing
    case that the claims for this font are not warranted by the data. "
  created: '2011-08-05 18:31:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: You're right, my mistake.
  created: '2011-08-05 20:20:25'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Correct, I don\u2019t think there was anything wrong with the data analysis
    or much of anything in the study report. It\u2019s clear from the report that
    they didn\u2019t find reliable differences between the two tested fonts.\r\n\r\nChristopher,
    some of the data that suggests that Verdana performs well on performance tests
    is unpublished. Data from Barbara Chaparro\u2019s lab supports this:\r\n1. http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/92/legibility.asp\r\n2.
    Chaparro, B., Shaikh, A.D., Chaparro, A., & Merkle, E.C. (2010). Comparing the
    legibility of six ClearType typefaces to Verdana and Times New Roman. <em>Information
    Design Journal, 18(1)</em>, 36-49.\r\n\r\nJuliet Shen just pointed me to a good
    recent article in the New York Times about dyslexia: \r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/02/health/research/02dyslexia.html?_r=1\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-05 23:27:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "If Anne Sperling and colleagues are correct, the auditory problem (\u201Cgetting
    to the sounds of speech\u201D \u2014 Sally Shaywitz in the NYT article) is only
    part of the deficit in developmental dyslexia. Perceptual noise exclusion in the
    visual domain and non-optimal visual perceptual templates probably are paired
    with the phonological awareness problem.\r\n\r\nA long time MIT researcher on
    dyslexia, Gad Geiger has demonstrated that dyslexics recognized letters visually
    farther in the periphery and more diffusely near the center than typical readers
    did. Compared with typical readers dyslexics experienced greater crowding [noise?]
    in the typical Form Resolving Field, a rough equivalent to Denis Pelli\u2019s
    uncrowded span. The reference is \u201CWide and diffuse perceptual modes characterize
    dyslexics in vision and audition\u201D Perception, 2008, volume 37, pages 1745
    \u2013 1764, Gadi Geiger, Carmen Cattaneo\xF4, Raffaella Galli\xF4, Uberto Pozzoli\xF4,
    Maria Luisa Lorusso\xF4, Andrea Facoetti\xF4\xBD, Massimo Molteni\xF4:\r\nhttp://www.perceptionweb.com/perception/fulltext/p37/p6036.pdf\r\n\r\nRemediation
    of the visual perceptual component comes by \u201Ca regimen of practice comprised
    of small-scale hand / eye coordination tasks and reading with a window mask\u201D
    to narrow, and sharpen tuning in, the Form Resolving Field.\r\n\r\nThe question
    elicited by Renske de Leeuw\u2019s manipulations is are they enough to address
    the dyslexic person\u2019s deficits within the foveal field.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-08 19:32:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevlar:  Arial seems like a reasonable choice since, I believe, it is recommended
    by some dyslexic organizations. Although I am certain that Verdana would soundly
    beat Arial...\r\n\r\nA great question/assumption I guess is; if normal readers
    read a text face sized optically for smaller use (Verdana) better at most sizes
    than they do a font sized for larger text sizes (Helvetica//Arial), do dyslexics
    too? "
  created: '2011-08-08 19:42:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'It would be interesting to know, since the Armenian alphabet has greater
    differentiation, whether this kind of dyslexia is equally or less common among
    Armenian children. '
  created: '2011-08-14 16:31:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "An alternative approach to addressing the issue, at least for the specific
    form of dyslexia related to reversed characters, would be to change the alphabet
    rather than use a specific typeface. This could be done by borrowing characters
    with similar phonetic values from other alphabets.\r\n\r\nHere is an example,
    including a special bonus feature to commemorate the participant in these forums
    who inspired this strategy:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alp-4_4488.gif]\r\n\r\nThere
    are four lines in the illustration. To start with, the problem characters are
    all replaced with corresponding characters from the Armenian alphabet, in which
    all the issues noted are resolved. This is done in the first and second lines,
    as there are two possible choices in Armenian for the replacement for the letter
    \"p\".\r\n\r\nBut Armenian is quite unfamilar to most Latin-alphabet users. Thus,
    in the third line, I reduce the amount of adjustment required by replacing b,
    d, and p with their Cyrillic equivalents instead. That still leaves two letters
    to come from Armenian.\r\n\r\nFinally, in the fourth line, I take the replacement
    for the letter q from Hebrew instead, so that only one letter needs to be replaced
    from Armenian. Which seems to integrate better with the Latin alphabet than, say,
    the Devanagari script.\r\n\r\nOr, perhaps a bit more seriously:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alp-6_5684.gif]"
  created: '2011-08-14 16:37:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This is true, because if this kind of dyslexia remains equally common - or
    is equally likely to cause problems (after all, normal small children learning
    the alphabet will draw any letter backwards, not merely those with reflected counterparts)
    - then increasing differentiation is not really a useful tactic.\r\n\r\nIn any
    case, starting from GFS Artemisia as a basis, here's a genuinely more serious
    version of the lowercase alphabet, more likely to be recognizable:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alp-7_5778.gif]"
  created: '2011-08-14 17:15:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're heading straight towards the alphabet reform effort I made in the
    late 90s.  :-)\r\nAnd the point was to help everybody, not just a minority.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-14 17:55:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Side note: You use of the phrase \u201C\u2026<em>alphabet reform</em>\u2026\u201D
    brought back a fond memory:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ABayer_5280.jpg]\r\n\r\nHerbert
    Bayer\u2019s <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayer_Architype\">Architype
    Bayer</a> (1927)."
  created: '2011-08-14 20:40:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, if it <em>is</em> possible to help everyone, not just a particular
    minority, so much the better!\r\n\r\nHowever, I also do feel that any attempt
    at a script reform is likely to get nowhere. People are content, and see no reason
    to change. Of course, imperceptibly over time, some features of typefaces might
    change.\r\n\r\nFor example, Bodoni has quotation marks that are different from
    those of more traditional typefaces, and which are arguably more logical: the
    opening quote is a mirror-reflection of the closing quote and apostrophe. Had
    the designers of Helvetica and Optima and Stone, for example, all copied this,
    with the innovation then percolating over even into new serif typefaces like,
    say, Williams Caslon, perhaps in a few hundred years the new style of quotation
    mark might displace the old one.\r\n\r\nThe same sort of process might lead to
    the \"a\" and \"g\" changing to an infanta form, if fashions pulled in that direction.\r\n\r\nEven
    those changes are unlikely, though, and that seems to represent the limit of the
    kind of change that's possible.\r\n\r\nIt took a while to hunt up some information
    about this, but I found one forum discussion in which there was a link, still
    functioning, to the shorter version of a discussion of these matters, and later
    I found a [[http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/maslucida.gif|link]] to an image
    of your Mas Lucida typeface.\r\n\r\nEarlier in my searches, I came to your MicroFoundry
    site, but I could not see a page there about this, or with that image on it. Perhaps
    I have a problem navigating the site; it seems to be a very small site with only
    a little content, and yet what I see suggests that there could or should be a
    lot there, but I'm just not navigating it properly."
  created: '2011-08-14 20:41:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, thank you for looking it up!\r\nI should and will give you a full reply,
    but it will be at least a week.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-15 00:15:33'
- author:
    name: Diederik Corvers
    picture: 109674
  body: "studiostudio: <cite>\"I know that the font is restless irregularity for those
    without dyslexia, and he many rules of type design are violated. But I wanted
    function over esthetics.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIn type design in general, and in this
    case in particular, esthetics ARE function, so there is no putting one over the
    other, they are equally important in creating a successful result and so should
    be considered likewise. "
  created: '2011-08-16 08:13:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>Function never trumps aesthetics</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pam_5460.jpg]\r\n\r\nFigure
    1: Can you make the logo bigger?"
  created: '2013-01-25 23:20:00'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: '[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/education/2004/sep/23/research.highereducation2|Here
    is an old article]] from the Guardian, published in 2004 it''s about how a person
    may be dyslexic in one language and read normally in another language.'
  created: '2013-02-14 18:37:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I do remember reading somewhere that there is no such thing as a dyslexic
    in China, because the Chinese characters are not designed with geometrical shapes
    that are used in upside-down and reversed forms.\r\n\r\nAnyways, I am sure that
    stigmatizing does not come into this. Instead, no doubt, the makers of this typeface,
    who are safeguarding their intellectual property, are hoping that <strong>all
    school textbooks from now on</strong> will be printed in this new typeface. <em>Think
    of the children!</em>\r\n\r\nOf course there may be existing typefaces with some
    of the properties of this one that would also be more readable by dyslexics. But
    they're probably display faces - whereas for this purpose one wishes to use an
    \"infanta\" design as the starting point.\r\n\r\nFor example, I doubt that schools
    would be willing to specify that textbook publishers use [[http://www.comicbookfonts.com/fonts/catalog.html?item=fonts:cl329|Fairy
    Tale]] from Comicraft to typeset their textbooks, even if it also meets the technical
    requirements.\r\n\r\nEDIT: With the passage of time, Comicraft has rearranged
    their web site. Current link:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.comicbookfonts.com/Fairy-Tale-p/cl329.htm]]"
  created: '2014-03-19 07:18:16'
date: '2011-07-11 22:37:45'
node_type: forum
title: Typeface for dyslexics

---
