---
author:
  name: Latinus
body: "Hello. I've posted a few times here asking for advice and critiques of various
  fonts. Each time, I've been rather impressed with the suggestions and advice. Well,
  I've come back for another round, asking for your help in this:\r\n\r\nI have found
  a copy of the Biblia Sacra ex Sebastiani Castellionis I would like to get republished.
  Other than the rare scanned reprint of the few remaining original copies, this Latin-language
  Bible is nearly impossible to find. It was published shortly before the old Clementine
  Vulgate, and was the only translation of its kind: instead of using the simpler
  Ecclesiastical style, Ch\xE2teillon's edition was in the far more complex Classical
  style, and was censored by both the Protestants and Catholics of the time because
  of it. Ch\xE2teillon himself was raised a Catholic and eventually joined up with
  Calvin. Later, he broke with Calvin over a censorship issue (Calvin was for censoring
  opposing viewpoints, Ch\xE2teillon was against). He was widely known in his day
  as a skilled translator, and was fluent in French and Italian, and was known to
  be a master of Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. He was also proficient in German. \r\n\r\nI
  am not wanting to reprint the extant copies of Ch\xE2teillon's translation (which
  is non-partisan compared to most translations on the market then and now. It contains
  the entire Deuterocannon, unlike most translations done by Protestants and has numerous
  references to Roman mythology - such as, in Genesis, instead of using the more traditionally
  Christian \"LORD God\", Ch\xE2teillon used \"Iova Deus\" - the first part of which
  phonetically sounds like the Hebrew Tetragrammaton, and also happens to be one of
  the traditional titles of Jupiter (Jove); as well as referring to Hell as \"orcus\"
  rather than the more Ecclesiastical \"infernus\".). I however, wish to reformat
  it - the verse numbers in the extant copies are unclear and there is neither a system
  of paragraphs nor the verses listed out clearly, as in a list. \r\n\r\n\r\nSo, here
  is my request:\r\n\r\nI am looking for a font for the above kind of Bible. If it
  costs money, I will save up the sufficient funds.\r\n\r\nI'd like a typeface that
  is sturdy, masculine, and handsome. Something that is readable and legible. Something
  that is kind to the eyes in large quantities and appropriately small size (Although
  I have seen an edition of the Clementine Vulgate printed in 1914 with a rather large
  size, what looked about the size of a 14 pt Times). I need to research paper - some
  suggestions for that would also be nice. I'd like a sturdy paper that will last,
  but not be thick. I may try to put out this text in multiple volumes. I would like
  the font to look good in Italian calfskin and at the same time convey a sense of
  the sound of Classical Latin (I'm a language major, so I think in sounds, I apologize).
  If you google search \"Classical Latin Pronunciation,\" the Wheelock's site and
  the ancienthistory.about.com have some decent recordings, as well as the Latinum
  podcast. \r\n\r\nI apologize if this is a hefty order, but thank you all for the
  help."
comments:
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Andreas St\xF6tzner's Andron would be my first choice. If you need medieval
    characters or there are passages using Greek, Andron Mega support them all.\r\n\r\nAnother
    interesting choices: Livory, Sirba, Spinoza, and Milo Serif."
  created: '2011-07-21 08:53:24'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I've always found Beorcana to have a very holy appearance, apart from the
    fact that it's just brilliantly crafted. It costs, yes, but it's definitely worth
    it. Good luck!
  created: '2011-07-21 12:18:57'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "I was greatly impressed with Beorcana. Linotype has a pro package for the
    basic fonts for $100. I will either need to save more than that for the extra
    display fonts or find a good companion display font. \r\n\r\nI think Beorcana
    should work well anywhere from 9 to 12 pts for this particular project. Perchance
    I may be able to get it by Christmas! (I'm a student, so I'm rather poor). \r\n\r\nI
    am familiar with Andron, as I pay close attention to MUFI, which promotes it.
    It is a nice font, as is Livory. I think, however, that Beorcana is the best I've
    come across for this project thus far."
  created: '2011-07-21 18:19:30'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Beorcana is beautiful, resembles holy scriptures and is nicely done. But are
    you sure is it a good choice for continued reading? I don't think it works so
    well as a text font.
  created: '2011-07-21 19:40:49'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "some classics:\r\nBonesana by Matthieu Cortat http://www.nonpareille.net/typographie/index.html\r\nMerlo
    and Rongel by M\xE1rio Feliciano http://www.felicianotypefoundry.com/cms/\r\nClifford
    by Akira Kobayashi https://www.fontfont.com/fonts/clifford-nine/regular\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 19:56:19'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: I'd second Livory.
  created: '2011-07-21 20:27:56'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "Freiberger - could you explain your point as to how Beorcana is not a good
    text font? I'm just curious. \r\n\r\nLivory is good, I think, but Beorcana has
    the sort of \"flavor\" I'd like. \r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2011-07-21 20:45:30'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "There seem to be three questions, actually.\r\n\r\n1) a serif face or non-serif
    (Beorcana),\r\n2) what is the favoured style?\r\n3) what scripts support and glyph
    coverage is required?\r\n\r\nLike Mr. Freiberger I would be rather sceptic about
    a non-serif for such a treatise. But it may be an option.\r\nIf it comes to serif
    faces, Merlo seems particular interesting: it looks excellent, will be very legible
    and \u2013 has a Spanish background. If that does any count.\r\nIf you\u2019ll
    need more than Latin the choice may get narrowed down. Is there other scripts
    in that book than Latin? I\u2019d very much to see some images \u2026"
  created: '2011-07-22 09:37:59'
- author:
    name: Damien Gautier
    picture: 113068
  body: "We have designed a font for a publisher who asked us to design a new Bible
    (revisited translation of Dardy).\r\nWe really take care on the specificities
    of Bibles layouts to create this font.\r\nIt's based on the font used in the document
    \"Biblia poliglota complutense\" (1502-1511)\r\n\r\nYou can have a look on: http://www.editions205.fr/index.php?/fonderie/alcala/\r\nYou
    can download the laser specimen to have a more precise look.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-22 14:27:00'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "While typically I dislike sans serif fonts, Beorcana impressed me.\r\n\r\nI
    typically prefer serifs.\r\n\r\nThe favored style for this project is, beyond
    what I have already stated (sturdy, masculine, handsome): typically Roman or Renaissance.
    I mean something that evokes the Classical world. \r\n\r\nI need only Latin coverage
    for this Bible. I would add macrons (most fonts have them, although the most common
    missing macron is for the u), so to aid in the pronunciation, but it makes the
    text look unappealing. The macrons are not in the original edition from which
    I am working, but the Classical style of Latin (in which this Bible was produced)
    was developed to be pleasing when read. So macrons will probably be needed. If
    the font does not have macrons, but fits every other criterion best, I will forego
    macrons.\r\n\r\nAlso, I am partial to old style numerals, but that is not necessarily
    needed in this project.  \r\n\r\nI want the font -ideally - to be something that
    would work for a Bible, a Latin edition of Vergil, of Caesar, of Cicero - to evoke
    the kind of beauty, authority, and majesty of their language.\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2011-07-22 16:56:11'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "So you all can see what I am dealing with:\r\n\r\nhttp://dfg-viewer.de/en/version-20-deprecated/?set%5Bimage%5D=1&set%5Bzoom%5D=default&set%5Bdebug%5D=0&set%5Bdouble%5D=0&set%5Bmets%5D=http%3A%2F%2Fdigitale.bibliothek.uni-halle.de%2Foai%2F%3Fverb%3DGetRecord%26metadataPrefix%3Dmets%26identifier%3D1655486\r\n\r\nThe
    above is the URL for the text. It is a series of photographs of the last available
    printing of the translation."
  created: '2011-07-22 19:04:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'If you are want to do something that is reminiscent of old style type, check
    out Feliciano''s types, mentioned above, and also my [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/WilliamsCaslonText/|Williams
    Caslon Text]]. Bruce Kennett used William Caslon beautifully in [[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/26143305/Foliomania_540essaytitle.pdf|a
    companion book to a Shakespeare First Folio exhibition at the Folger Shakespeare
    Library.]] Somehow his use of the swash characters gave it a period feel. He used
    Big Caslon and Caslon 540 as companion faces for large size. '
  created: '2011-07-22 19:57:10'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Latinus, thanks a lot for pointing at the print reproductions. \r\nI looked
    at them with much great interest, not only because I happen to sit in the very
    city the book was printed in. ;-) I am struck by viewing this print.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    no expert in the detailed type history of that time. Nor do I know if any scholar
    might have published about that particular typeface so far anywhere. Maybe the
    face is well-known, maybe there are even digitized versions around already. Does
    anybody know?\r\n\r\nOnly from what I see at a first glance, just a few random
    thoughts:\r\n\u2013 overall appearance of the typeface on the printed page: perfect.
    matured and extremely well balanced.\r\n\u2013 a type of the Caslon era, but obviously
    influenced rather by the Garalde and even (!) the Bembonian traditions, probably
    influences from dutch typefaces. The c looks like Rotis, incredible.\r\n\u2013
    the Italic looks like actual Garamond to me.\r\n\u2013 the mood and several details,
    though hinting back onto Garamond (Le B\xE9?) and even Francesco Griffo, seems
    to anticipate some features of Fleischmann and perhaps even Walbaum \u2013 1729
    ! \u201CTransitional\u201D in the true sense of the word.\r\n\r\nWhatever it is,
    a typographical reproduction of that print seems to be a most worthy case. Even
    more so if the edition is of some notable historical value. But then, please:
    I\u2019d love to see it revived faithfully down to the very glyphs: long \u017F\u2019s,
    ligatures, and that remarkable quad space between sentences.\r\n\r\nJust my two
    pence."
  created: '2011-07-22 20:19:38'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "Hmm. Mr. St\xF6zner, \r\n\r\nyour last post certainly identifies a problem.
    I would love to have a reproduction of that very typeface, but, alas - cannot
    find one, and have as yet no skill to reproduce it (which is why I come here -
    to ask for those with more skill than I). I do not think FontForge, which is the
    only program I am able to afford right now, could do the typeface any justice.
    Perhaps this project will be more long-term than I thought. I may just have to
    either find someone who can reproduce it and come up with the money for such a
    reproduction or learn to reproduce it myself, although I would probably need a
    great deal of help."
  created: '2011-07-22 20:39:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Zachery, I think it is a trap to try to reproduce a really old face "authentically",
    [[http://ilovetypography.com/2010/07/26/reviving-caslon-the-snare-of-authenticity/|as
    I argued in my iLoveTypography piece.]] It would be better just to produce a facsimile
    edition if you want to capture the look as completely as possible. '
  created: '2011-07-22 20:48:03'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "I remember reading that article when I was looking for a good Caslon remake
    (I still have my eyes on Williams Caslon, as I have since I discovered it, but
    do not think it is necessarily the best option for this Bible). \r\n\r\nI do not
    wish to produce a facsimile edition - which is why I was looking originally for
    a good font to reproduce the contents rather than the appearance of the original.
    There is at least one facsimile print of the Bible available on the market. I
    think that is good for its historical merit - but I want a production that will
    make the contents themselves the focus - and for that, it needs to be done in
    such a way as to make it available to the modern reader. I want as few barriers
    as possible between the contents and the reader - and I want a face that aids
    in the tone of the work, and a binding and paper as well that adds to the work
    and will ensure its survival. \r\n\r\nMy previous post was about the typeface
    itself - its essential flavor I think is what I want for the edition I hope to
    produce, though I am uncertain as to how to achieve that typeface's flavor with
    another. \r\n\r\nI apologize for conflicting posts, as I think more and reflect
    upon those with more experience than I, I begin to see things more clearly in
    regard to the direction of the project. Thank you."
  created: '2011-07-22 21:24:08'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: '[ quick and dirty sample: BibliaSacra.png http://typophile.com/node/73413
    ]'
  created: '2011-07-22 21:32:00'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "The font is looking really nice, JanekZ. When do you expect it to be finished,
    and what do you expect its cost to be? (And what will be the language support
    - i.e., will it include macrons?) I don't know yet what I'll choose - I need to
    think more and perhaps seek more advice. Eventually, though, I'll just have to
    buckle down and make a decision. \r\n\r\nI do remember one font. I can't remember
    what it was, but it looked brilliant, but was also very expensive. It was either
    a Swiss or Dutch company, I think."
  created: '2011-07-23 01:39:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Were you thinking of [[http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/M504/DTLFleischmann_M504.pdf|DTL
    Fleishmann]]?
  created: '2011-07-23 02:03:02'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "I'll guess he was thinking of something from [[http://www.teff.nl/fonts/trinite/index.html|TEFF]],
    which was one of the things I first remembered when he said price was not necessarily
    an issue. Geronimo, Lexicon, Trinit\xE9 and Renard would all be fine choices.\r\nI'd
    also consider looking at the stuff from [[http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/|Dutch
    Type Library]], like the above mentioned Fleischmann, of course. Or [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fontbureau/farnham/|Farnham]],
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/dante/|Dante]] or [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/spectrum/|Spectrum]].\r\n\r\nThere
    are plenty of great typefaces around fit for this job, with flavours to please
    anyone. [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/garagefonts/freight-text-pro/|Freight]],
    [[http://www.typography.com/fonts/font_styles.php?productLineID=100020|Requiem]],
    [[http://ourtype.com/#/all-fonts/|Custodia or Arnhem]] (; maybe [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/arno/|Arno]]
    or something like [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/estudio-ch/espinosa-nova/|Espinosa
    Nova]]; or the classics, like [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/garamond-premier/|Garamond
    Premier]], [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/jenson/|Jenson]] or [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/fournier-mt/|Fournier]].\r\n\r\nFor
    something \u201Cdifferent\u201D (and with the help of Bringhurt's type specimen
    from his \u201CThe Elements of Style\u201D), I'd throw in [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-quadraat/|Quadraat]]
    (or [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_quadraat_sans_ot/|Quadraat
    Sans]], for that matter), [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/columbus-mt/|Columbus]],
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/kinesis-mm/|Kinesis]], [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_seria_ot/|Seria]],
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/itc-mendoza-roman/|Mendoza]], [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/trajanus/|Trajanus]],
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/antique-ancienne/|Antique]] and [[http://justanotherfoundry.com/lapture|Lapture]],
    for instance. Maybe [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/letraset/figural/|Figural]],
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/aldus/|Aldus]], [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/cartier-book/|Cartier]]
    or [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/rimmer/amethyst/|Amethyst]].\r\n\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/rimmer/stern/|Stern]]
    came to mind, but you'll probably think it's too light.\r\n\r\nAnd I'll stop,
    now."
  created: '2011-07-23 10:30:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I still think Beorcana works in text. Although it seems logical to believe
    that the serifs themselves are the main cause for better readability in serif
    faces, I believe a lot also depends on the diagonal stress, which is rarely (or
    to a smaller extend) found in sans serif type. Beorcana breaks that rule. It has
    everything a serif has, without serifs. I would even argue that the more open
    lettershapes of Beorcana might create even better readability than, let's say
    Adobe Garamond. This is based on loose ground, but it would be awesome to see
    some sort of a readability test of Beorcana.\r\n\r\nIf that doesn't exist, I suppose
    you could contact the designer about it or ask for a free version, so that you
    can test it yourselve, before buying the license.\r\n\r\nThis Dutch/Swiss foundry
    you were talking about, was probably TEFF. Though all of the fonts in their library
    are expensive.\r\n\r\nI would suggest one of the more modern (refering to time,
    not style) serif typefaces for Display use. Say, Calluna, Trinit\xE9, Centro Serif,
    etc.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2011-07-23 11:50:01'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "The typeface used in the book surprisingly resembles my source. There are,
    of course, differences - especially \"a\" and c, e, g, E etc. My font is based
    on ca 8 pt used by Elzeviers, so there is no fancy serifs and fragile details.
    If you want to give it a try drop me a line.\r\nwhen finished? I do not know...
    ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle#Alpha ).\r\nlanguage
    support: Latin-1 Supplement, Latin extended A & B, IPA Extensions, Cyrillic, Cyrillic
    Supplement, Latin Extended Additional, [Greek, Hebrew, Armenian]*\r\nmacrons included\r\n\r\n*
    sooner or later"
  created: '2011-07-23 12:30:14'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "The face I was trying to remember was Arnhem on Our Type, which, apparently,
    is Belgian. I thought it looked Dutch. Although Fleishmann made me give a pause
    - not because it was similar, but because it is impressive.\r\n\r\nI am, however,
    very interested in Janek's. \r\n\r\nI would like to do a test on Beorcana, although
    I have been presented with some faces that would require Beorcana to look amazingly
    legible in long text for me to choose it for this project (I may still grab it
    though, if I do not choose it, when I get the money.) It would be interesting.
    Stranger things have happened, I think, than a non-serif looking better in long,
    printed text than a serif. Thank you."
  created: '2011-07-23 13:25:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'I have some good news: Monotype Imaging is now selling Beorcana Medium for
    a mere $20.00 US; apparently, from this thread, it must have been considerably
    more expensive than that.'
  created: '2011-07-23 16:57:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On Beorcana, I think it is a very strong version of the Carolingian minuscule\u2014most
    are more delicate than what you'd want, I think\u2014and so would give a kind
    of scribal feeling. I feel that the old style of types, starting with Jenson and
    Griffo are more readable than this more scribal style. But Beorcana is readable,
    and since it is for people reading the Bible in Latin (!) I don't think they are
    going to be reading very quickly, so maximum readability it seems to me is less
    of a premium than getting the aesthetic you want. \r\n\r\nSince you don't want
    to do a facsimile, I think it's really a question of what you think gives the
    feeling you want. And if that's Beorcana, go for it.\r\n\r\nBy the way, if you
    are going for a more calligraphic or scribal look, don't overlook Brioso Pro.
    I've seen it used small, and was astonished how readable it is small. And it is
    really elegant large. And it has a panoply of weights and optical sizes. So it
    might be what you're looking for.   "
  created: '2011-07-23 18:28:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm just amazed, though, that the suggestions here are so... exotic. And
    recent. But then, for a site primarily frequented by professional type designers,
    that shouldn't be <em>too</em> surprising.\r\n\r\nStill, I'd have been inclined
    to start with a simple and familiar suggestion, and then perhaps suggest related
    types that might be even better. Say, like Bembo. (As one might already have Bitstream's
    Aldine 401.)\r\n\r\nAlso: while most editions do have the verse numbers in the
    margins, [[http://books.google.ca/books?id=uPBEAAAAcAAJ|this one]] on Google Books
    has the verses indicated clearly and unambiguously."
  created: '2011-07-23 23:13:02'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "Thank you for the link quadibloc, and sorry for the delay in response.\r\n\r\nI
    have found Adobe's Jenson and Brioso, both of which are beautiful. I think Jenson
    is a better choice. I've been trying to find the best-quality Jenson available,
    and from what I can tell, Adobe's version is the best suited for a book face.
    I probably would use Janek's face if it were complete (I think it would be good
    for the Aeneid as well, however)\r\n\r\nI have also discovered ITC Bodoni, which,
    although is not what I want to use here, it is what I was looking for for something
    else. \r\n\r\nToday has been a good day."
  created: '2011-07-25 01:52:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "If you're considering a Jenson, there's Cloister Lightface - but I suspect
    it's not the best choice. While it was a historic typeface in its day, in some
    subtle ways it is dated - not to Jenson's day, but to Goudy's day.\r\n\r\nDay
    Roman, which is free, doesn't have a matching italic. It somewhat resembles Bembo,
    although it's based on the work of a different punchcutter.\r\n\r\nOne might want
    to look at Centaur, as well, if one is interested in a typeface like Jenson. But
    I suspect that now that they know what you want, the professional typographers
    here can suggest some excellent recent alternatives for your consideration. I
    don't know offhand about Adobe Jenson, but while I thought Adobe Caslon was a
    good typeface, I had to admit that it was about at the very limit of how far one
    might get away with straying from authenticity."
  created: '2011-07-27 04:52:42'
- author:
    name: Andrew Dunning
  body: "This does look like a rather interesting project; best of luck with it.\r\n\r\nChecking
    our library catalogue, you might be interested to know that we have a slightly
    newer printing of this particular book on our shelves; it's been [[http://www.archive.org/details/bibliasacraexseb01cast|digitized
    on Archive.org]]. Something to consider, though: if you really want to take on
    editing the Vulgate, what the Latin world really needs right now is a more reliable
    electronic version of the Stuttgart text, and with actual punctuation (probably
    approximating what is found in the Clementine edition). Also, I don't believe
    that there's a single version of the Vulgate on the market at the moment that
    is nicely typeset, uses a standard text, and that you can actually pick up and
    read without the mess of an extensive apparatus at the bottom. Harvard is working
    on one, but they've made an absolute mess of the text, and the physical volumes
    are very cumbersome due to their size. It would be a bit of work, but it would
    be hugely useful, and would probably have a much wider audience than Ch\xE2teillon's
    translation.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I would avoid printing macrons; you'll go crazy
    enough trying to proofread the Latin text even without them. (For which, I hope
    you know about the Correcteur orthographique du Latin?) Macrons, as you note,
    are terribly ugly, and really only necessary for beginners' exercises. If you're
    really concerned about correct pronunciation, I find that stress accents are more
    useful, and actually appear in some medieval manuscripts and early printed books;
    they're also not as difficult to mess up."
  created: '2011-08-13 08:45:28'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: "Mr. Dunning - Interesting. I have a copy of the Nova Vulgata, the current
    official Bible of the Catholic Church - it is actually a nice edition, printed
    in what looks like ITC's New Baskerville. It is a hefty volume because the print
    is rather large. It contains minimal footnotes, mostly translation notes. \r\n\r\nIf
    I were to make an edition of the Vulgate (Ch\xE2teillon's version is not a vulgate),
    I would make an edition of the Nova Vulgata, as it is not widely available and
    is the current official standard of the Church. That being said, for the Honors
    College at my university, I am making a translation of the Gospel of John from
    the Nova Vulgata, and have in my sights a complete translation of the text for
    devotional use and for use as an aid in other translations. \r\n\r\nOf course,
    since the Nova Vulgata is copyrighted by the Vatican Publishing House, permissions
    would have to be gained from them for any such project, as well, most probably,
    from the local bishop. \r\n\r\nI am no fan of the Stuttgart version. Adding punctuation
    would, I think, ruin the entire point of that edition - as its focus was to imitate
    a medieval manuscript. "
  created: '2011-08-13 15:31:09'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: 'Late suggestion: have you looked at Espinosa Nova? The suite contains all
    the usual OTF ligatures, etc., plus some lovely initial caps and an alternate
    blackletter cut. Review the font / download a PDF spec sheet here: http://estudio-ch.com/tipo_i.php?idti=23.
    (Available to purchase at Myfonts.)'
  created: '2011-08-17 19:10:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Cristobal was extremely helpful and accommodating when I licensed Espinosa
    Nova. Just saying.
  created: '2011-08-17 19:44:07'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: I just looked at Espinosa Nova. I think it will make a gorgeous Bible. I am
    getting paid Friday, so after I get what I need for class I may grab this. Thank
    you, KCH for the late suggestion!
  created: '2011-08-18 00:09:58'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: You're welcome, Latinus ... best of luck with the project.
  created: '2011-08-18 00:28:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Wow, the Rotunda looks great! Is that what you're going to use?
  created: '2011-08-18 01:38:56'
- author:
    name: Latinus
  body: I think so, Mr. Berkson. If it is possible to fall in love with a typeface,
    I've done so.
  created: '2011-08-18 07:00:51'
- author:
    name: Andrew Dunning
  body: Yes, very nice indeed; this is an excellent find. You should also check out
    the [[http://www.bibledesignblog.com/|Bible Design Blog]]; he has some really
    neat stuff in there, and there was just an article about someone who designed
    his own edition of the Gospels.
  created: '2011-08-21 07:40:00'
- author:
    name: Patruus
  body: "As to Castellio's Biblia Sacra, the typeface of the 1697 Frankfurt edition
    is not unpleasing [1]. Moreover, this edition is available as a facsimile reprint
    from a publisher in Germany [2][3].\r\n\r\n[1] http://books.google.com/books?id=uPBEAAAAcAAJ&pg=PA290\r\n\r\n[2]
    http://www.olms.de/artikel_14750.ahtml\r\n\r\n[3] http://library.getty.edu/cgi-bin/Pwebrecon.cgi?BBID=803769"
  created: '2011-11-13 19:50:27'
date: '2011-07-21 03:21:00'
node_type: forum
title: Looking for a Good Typeface

---
