---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: '[[http://imprint.printmag.com/typography/akira-kobayashi-akko-pro-and-akko-rounded-pro/|Paul
  Shaw with an interesting interview of Akira Kobayashi]] on his new face Akko, and
  Shaw''s comments on it. '
comments:
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: And he is so right about the ligatures.
  created: '2011-07-29 09:41:51'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "So, it\u2019s not a must to include these useless ct and st ligatures in
    every new OT typeface?"
  created: '2011-07-29 10:47:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The ligatures are pointless, but harmless, as they are options. What I really
    like about Akko is that it manages to have some strength along with softness.
    \r\n\r\nWe have being experiencing what I like to call the \"attack of the soft
    sans\", with cuteness and friendliness being the goal. These are both worthy goals,
    but the results have appeared to me often as weak or cloying. Although cuteness
    can be wonderful, it has a limited use, and for a few words in display. \r\n\r\nRounding
    often leads to an obese \"jelly bean\" look in heavy weights, and weakness in
    the light weights. \r\n\r\nHere by having the strokes more stiff and square, with
    more humanist proportions, to me the result has some strength. I can see the inspiration
    in the Japanese examples he shows\u2014I also heard his talk at TypeCon\u2014and
    I think the result is something fresh, which is pretty rare. I think the bolder
    rounded weights are most attractive, and I hope will be used. \r\n\r\nAnd indeed,
    the general inspiration, Cooper Black, is one of the few very rounded serifs that
    has strength along with its friendliness.\r\n\r\nIs there another very square
    sans with rounded terminals? Here it seems he's introduced a new style, and executed
    it very well.    "
  created: '2011-07-29 14:26:13'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "I agree with you completetely about the overall design. I just can\u2019t
    see those ct and st ligatures in new sans designs any more. They are not default,
    so no harm."
  created: '2011-07-29 14:43:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As I explained in my Thessaloniki talk of 2004, ligatures don't\r\nhave to
    be affectations - they can nicely help diverge boumas.\r\n\r\nIt doesn't matter
    where something is coming from, it matters\r\nwhere it's heading. Just like chirography
    in type design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-29 16:47:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, as I have said before, I don't think the lower case roman has problems
    of differentiation. Certainly the s and c and t are highly differentiated, and
    I don't see that they need any further help. Also while the ct ligature is historical,
    as far as I know the \"st\" ligature is an anachronism. The original ligature
    was the historical long s and t. \r\n\r\nI suppose that someone can use them playfully
    to good effect in the right context, but personally I find the st and ct ligatures
    distracting and irritating. \r\n\r\nIn a cursive, connected script, I don't have
    any objection to them in principle, but I do for roman text type. "
  created: '2011-07-29 18:08:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of course the Latin lc has differentiation problems, especially when it comes
    to boumas (as opposed to letterwise decipherment). Mainly there's too much action
    in the muddy x-height and not enough in the extender space. This is why ligatures
    that use the extender space are valuable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-29 18:53:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I see your point about ascenders and descenders. A few more might help the
    alphabet, but not a lot, as I think in the fovea we can see the x-height quite
    well. Anyway, this is a moot point, as it''s not going to change. Those ct and
    st things are not the way I''d look for improvement, a they seem to muddy things
    up, to use your language. And as they aren''t that familiar, they''re positively
    distracting rather than helpful. '
  created: '2011-07-29 20:21:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is there another very square sans with rounded terminals?</em>\r\n\r\nVery
    many.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_unit_rounded_ot/\">Unit
    Rounded</a> has been quite successful.\r\nMy take: <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/alphaville/\">Alphaville</a>\r\n\r\nAnd
    somewhat earlier (Caslon, 1830s):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Round7_5042.png]"
  created: '2011-07-29 20:23:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it's not going to change.\r\n\r\nNever say never.\r\nRemember, there wasn't
    even a lc once!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-29 21:49:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Nick. I don't see Unit as all that square. Your Alphaville is futuristic,
    as the name indicates, rather than humanist. To me the Caslon thing has the jelly
    bean awkwardness. I guess that I should have said squarish with humanist proportions
    and rounded corners. Kobayashi's Euro Candy is square and wide, with rounded corners.
    And, as I think Shaw says, not nearly as successful a design as Akko. \r\n\r\nHrant,
    I don't expect change, as I don't see where it's going to come from. When there
    were scribes, there was a continual evolution of letter forms. But since printing
    eclipsed the scribes, I guess by about 1500, I don't see changes in the skeletons
    of the letter forms. The dropping of the long s was about the biggest thing, and
    that was dropping a form rather than inventing one.  "
  created: '2011-07-29 22:23:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don't see where it's going to come from.\r\n\r\nFrom all around, right
    now, but especially in the future.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-29 22:45:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Your Alphaville is futuristic, as the name indicates, rather than humanist.
    </em>\r\n\r\nThe name refers to the movie, in which Alpha 60, the computer which
    runs the city, quotes from Borges' <em>New Refutation of Time</em>. The intention
    was to recontextualize type with a little bit of something from many generations
    of letter technology. The upstroke in the face is informed by calligraphy, the
    modulation of stem thicknesses by metal type, and the squareness and geometric
    curves by vector drawing software. It's Postmodern, not futuristic."
  created: '2011-07-30 00:07:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>When there were scribes, there was a continual evolution of letter
    forms. But since printing eclipsed the scribes, I guess by about 1500, I don't
    see changes in the skeletons of the letter forms.</em>\r\n\r\nTypographic printing
    fairly rapidly took book production out of the hands of scribes, but scribal culture
    isn't eclipsed by any means, and persists as invaluable to commerce, diplomacy,
    etc. until the development of the typewriter. During this time there are some
    interesting and telling examples of novel scribal developments in letterforms
    very directly influencing tastes in typography. I think the popularity of civilit\xE9
    types is the best example, and suggests to me the persistence of the idea -- long
    after Gutenberg followed textura manuscripts and Aldus and Griffo adapted humanist
    book hand and chancery italics -- that typographic culture should follow the lead
    of professional, formal document production. It also suggests to me why this idea
    declined in the face not of the eclipse of the scribes but the explosion of new
    scribal styles in the 17th and 18th Centuries: type founders and publishers couldn't
    afford to keep up with changing fashions of contemporary writing."
  created: '2011-07-30 00:08:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, thanks for the reminder that scribes kept going until the typewriter.
    That influenced Baskerville, as I learned from you, but those types don't change
    structure. I wonder if the dominance of type in visual culture, and its high readability
    crowded out other experiments. There were new forms of script from the pointed
    flexible pen nib, but what was adopted in type, Baskerville, is the humanist style
    redrawn with such a pen, rather than the florid style of Bickham. Maybe what's
    going on is just that the Carolingian Miniscule is so wonderfully readable, that
    other more florid styles could never get a grip as text type. \r\n\r\nBy the way,
    I'm rethinking the ascender-descender thing, Hrant. If you count the semi-ascenders
    like the ij and t, then there are 9 ascenders and 4 descenders, with the j having
    both. So there you have 13 letters, half the alphabet, with ascenders or descenders.
    Would say sticking a descender on the right of the n\u2014the most likely candidate\u2014\u2014really
    help? I suppose we can type some text with the eng, and see. \r\n\r\nOk, curiousity
    has got the better of me. Here's some of John's last post with the n replace by
    an eng:\r\n\r\n\"I thi\u014Bk the popularity of civilit\xE9 types is the best
    example, a\u014Bd suggests to me the persiste\u014Bce of the idea -- lo\u014Bg
    after Gute\u014Bberg followed textura ma\u014Buscripts a\u014Bd Aldus a\u014Bd
    Griffo adapted huma\u014Bist book ha\u014Bd a\u014Bd cha\u014Bcery italics --
    that typographic cultureshould follow the lead of professio\u014Bal, formal docume\u014Bt
    productio\u014B. It also suggests to me why this idea decli\u014Bed i\u014B the
    face \u014Bot of the eclipse of the scribes but the explosio\u014B of \u014Bew
    scribal styles i\u014B the 17th a\u014Bd 18th Ce\u014Bturies: type fou\u014Bders
    a\u014Bd publishers could\u014B\u2019t afford to keep up with cha\u014Bgi\u014Bg
    fashio\u014Bs of co\u014Btemporary writi\u014Bg.\"\r\n\r\nProbably it ought to
    be a straight descender, to not fight with the g and y, but I kind of like it!
    \r\n\r\n[Confession: I first tried the n descender as a teenager!] \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-30 01:29:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>That influenced Baskerville, as I learned from you, but those types
    don't change structure. I wonder if the dominance of type in visual culture, and
    its high readability crowded out other experiments. There were new forms of script
    from the pointed flexible pen nib, but what was adopted in type, Baskerville,
    is the humanist style redrawn with such a pen, rather than the florid style of
    Bickham.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but I do recommend taking a serious look at the much
    earlier civilit\xE9 phenomenon, which is something else entirely and, I think,
    represents the both a serious attempt to follow scribal fashion in text type and
    the ultimate financial case against doing so. The number of fonts of civilit\xE9
    type produced was significant, and it must have required considerable investment.
    I don't think we can say for sure that the subsequent dominance of the roman model
    is based on its 'high readability', or not on that alone. A variation on the notorious
    Emigre dictum seems apt: people want to read what they are used to reading. During
    that time when what a lot of people read on a daily basis was handwriting, there
    remained a tension between the conservatism of book typography and the greater
    variety of written styles. Every once in a while, some brave and brilliant type
    maker such as Granjon tried to resolve the tension by making type in the image
    of contemporary writing. As you say, in the 18th Century, the tension was resolved
    in a different way, by creating a new roman using the familiar structures but
    the characteristics of the pointed nib. But it was the writing masters who did
    this, not the type makers."
  created: '2011-07-30 02:10:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Familiarity is no doubt a prerequisite for ease of reading, I don''t think
    familiarity alone can explain the persistence of the Carolingian Miniscule as
    the dominant text form. After all, we have italic, which is arguably as familiar
    as roman lower case, but extended text is rarely set in it. And we read it more
    slowly. (I hope that''s been confirmed by others aside from Tinker!) '
  created: '2011-07-30 02:33:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, while the Italian humanist formal hand that is the model of our roman
    lowercase forms is directly descended from the Carolingian minuscule (note spelling),
    I think it is a mistake to refer to it as such. The Carolingian minuscule forms
    exhibit a number of differences from the later forms that are characteristic of
    the style, notably the absence of serifs, which the Italian humanist hand brought
    over from the capitals to the lowercase, surely one of the most important developments
    of the Latin script in terms of subsequent typographic tradition.\r\n\r\nNote
    that I wasn't associating familiarity with ease of reading -- as you say, it is
    a prerequisite, but given how quickly we seem to be able to familiarise ourselves
    with new styles, I don't think it is a critical issue --, but with cultural preference.
    This seems to me an important factor in the relationship of writing and type during
    the long periods of overlapping scribal and typographic cultures, because if you
    look at the documentary culture in e.g. late 16th Century France and the Low Countries,
    or in late 17th Century England, you see the sources of tension that lead on the
    one hand to the development of civilit\xE9 types and on other to the writing of
    roman forms with a split nib that provides the model for Baskerville. These developments
    occur, I believe, in response to the desire to create a unitary text culture or
    aesthetic, (unitary in the sense of bridging writing and typography, not in the
    sense of having a single style of letters: within this unitary culture, a lot
    of different styles exist and are used to complement or contrast with each other)."
  created: '2011-07-30 18:20:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "You're right of course about the model being the humanist revival of Carolingian
    minuscule, not the original, which didn't have the serifs. Is there a simple name
    for the humanist revival, which added serifs, and became more upright?\r\n\r\nI
    am skeptical about a unitary aesthetic. It seems to me likely that after the introduction
    of printing, the kind of formal hand that was used before for books, for extended
    reading, was no longer called for, even though hand written materials were widely
    used. So maybe what is going on is the acceptance of more cursive styles for hand
    written material, but for text type, the model remained the humanist minuscule.
    \r\n\r\nOops, this doesn't take into account the long battle over whether to use
    blackletter for text. So there's more to the story... "
  created: '2011-07-30 18:30:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The situation at the beginning of typography, vis \xE0 vis a unitary aesthetic,
    isn't what I was talking about. A unitary text culture exists by default whenever
    a script is reduced to typography, because the dominant formal book hand inevitably
    seems to become the model of the typographic book, followed by adoption of informal
    hands in secondary roles. We see this not only in the European situation, but
    repeated throughout the world. The tensions to which I referred, develop subsequently,
    as written text adopts new forms.\r\n\r\nAlso note that unitary text aesthetic
    does not necessarily imply particular styles or forms of letters in contemporary
    use in both type and writing, but modal harmony between type and writing. We see
    this in the 18th Century English experience, where there is a need to develop
    a form of roman type-like writing that harmonises with contemporary script styles,
    rather than with the obsolete broadnib italic.\r\n\r\nBy the way, having got a
    good picture through my research of the development of what I call the 'English
    Roman' by the writing masters and engravers, I am now looking at pre-Baskerville
    applications of the style in <a href=\"http://www.afamilystory.co.uk/desborough-surrounds/rothwell/parish-church/images/304.jpg\">stonecut
    lettering</a>. Again, this seems to me further evidence of the desire for a unitary
    text culture, in which people seek to surround themselves with a harmonious aesthetic
    of the written, engraved, carved and typographic word.\r\n\r\nIn the 19th Century,
    the text aesthetic begins to be influenced more and more by other aspects of culture
    and society, so one starts to see \u2018industrial\u2019 styles of lettering and
    then, as the scribal culture declines with the introduction of the typewriter,
    a stronger connection between text and design, particularly architecture."
  created: '2011-07-30 19:56:21'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"revival of Carolingian minuscule, not the original, which didn't have the
    serifs\"\r\n\r\nHuh? Hello!!!!! Where did that come from William? It was done
    with a quill... hard not to have \"serifs.\"\r\n\r\nAnd the second thing William.
    the final stroke of the \"s\" is the TOP!!! So it is a natural draw to the upper
    right connecting with the \"t\" \"h\" \"k\" etc. Why do you, never mind! Once
    again, pick up a pen before you make these statements. I told you this in a previous
    thread. Why is this so hard for you?\r\nMichael"
  created: '2011-07-31 02:43:33'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "To wit, Harley MS 974AD.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caro_4367.png]\r\n\r\nI
    don't see the serifs either?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2011-07-31 02:57:15'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: 'Let me guess... you think "serifs" have to be horizontal with the baseline
    in order to be serifs? '
  created: '2011-07-31 04:55:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I tend to limit my use of the term serif to near-horizontal and bilateral
    terminals or to constructed terminals -- e.g. the triangular ascender terminals
    that require a secondary stroke --, and don't apply the term to all entry and
    exit strokes. My reason for this is that I also work with Greek and other scripts
    with a traditionally steeper pen angle, and while the entry and exit strokes of
    Carolingian minuscule are serif-like the same constructions in Greek are not.
    I like to be able to talk about entry and exit strokes independently of serifs
    for this reason.\r\n\r\nI'm happy to accommodate the view that the entry and exit
    strokes of Carolingian minuscule are serifs, though, and amend my earlier point
    to say that the Italian humanist hand brought over the bilateral roman serif from
    the capitals to the lowercase."
  created: '2011-07-31 05:19:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, sorry, I should have explained more fully. I was concerned that
    someone would jump on this after I posted. I know about the serifs you have shown.
    \r\n\r\nWhat happened, according to the lovely illustrated lecture I saw recently
    at the TDC, done by Sumner Stone, is this: in an effort to make the Carolingian
    minuscule more like the Imperial Capitals, in the 1400s they were fitted with
    more symmetric serifs, in place of the hooks and barbs that are more natural with
    the pen. And the strokes were made more vertical. The Imperial Caps were originally
    brush drawn, and serifs built up with more strokes than the Carolingian minuscule.
    So the humanist modification was an effort to harmonize a script that was a product
    of the pen with one that was product of the brush.\r\n\r\nSumner said his beautiful
    Magma was an effort to find another way to harmonize the upper and lower case.
    \ "
  created: '2011-07-31 05:23:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>I don't think we can say for sure that the subsequent
    dominance of the roman model is based on its 'high readability', or not on that
    alone. A variation on the notorious Emigre dictum seems apt: people want to read
    what they are used to reading.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is quite true that the current
    persistence of Roman types, versus other alternatives, is not in itself very conclusive
    evidence of how readable they are.\r\n\r\nWhat amazes a na\xEFve present-day individual,
    who assumes that Roman is more legible than Textura, however, is that text types
    persisted for so long before being displaced by Romans. Here, we can say that
    they persisted because \"people want to read what they are used to reading\",
    which explains why that form persisted for so long, and yet Romans eventually
    won out, proving they were superior.\r\n\r\nAlso, one can consult Typographical
    Printing-Surfaces, and get some objective data which might support a claim that
    Romans are more legible - overlapping the outlines of different letters, and counting
    the proportion of area that is different. Certainly, it strongly <em>seems</em>
    as though they are more legible than the typical Gothic writing style.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    an alternative hypothesis is that text types declined along with the rise of the
    vernacular - so educated people who used to read books in Latin, set in Roman
    type, moved over to reading their books in the vernacular, and thus demanded these
    books in what they were used to. (On the other hand, reading a book in a second
    language is, of course, a more demanding task - and so the choice of Roman for
    Latin books again points to Roman type as being more legible.)\r\n\r\nIn moving
    from old-style typefaces to more recent ones, counters have opened, and x-heights
    have increased. To me, that says that despite people reading what they're \r\n\"used
    to\", incremental improvements in the direction of higher legibility are possible,
    and they will be accepted. Of course, historically, these changes resulted from
    economic pressures to use smaller sizes of type to save paper."
  created: '2011-08-01 01:09:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What amazes a na\xEFve present-day individual, who assumes that Roman
    is more legible than Textura, however, is that text types persisted for so long
    before being displaced by Romans. Here, we can say that they persisted because
    \"people want to read what they are used to reading\", which explains why that
    form persisted for so long, and yet Romans eventually won out, proving they were
    superior.</em>\r\n\r\nWhere are you talking about? Germany and its neighbours?
    There was the small matter of the Second World War that put an end to the use
    of blackletter, first by the Nazis who realised that it wasn't useful for communicating
    with most conquered peoples (cf. the notorious Bormann memorandum), and then after
    the War by the western powers because of its association with the aesthetics of
    Nazism. [Notably, blackletter remained more common in East Germany, since the
    Russians didn't really understand the Latin script controversy; something I learned
    when I was in Leipzig.] So there is nothing in this that proves that roman types
    are 'superior'; rather, it demonstrates that script preferences are predominantly
    cultural (cf. the relative prominence of roman types in Catholic Bavaria compared
    to other parts of Germany), and it takes a major cultural crisis to change them
    dramatically."
  created: '2011-08-01 20:31:43'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "William\r\n\r\n I waited until this thread had died down, and I hope you
    find this in your travels. \r\nThe brush serif on the \"wall\"  was a finish stroke
    (completed, I might add, by the cutter as opposed to the generator of the forms).
    Whether it was at a flat angle (as in that very Trajan) or a 35 degree angle (in
    the Carolingian or Chancery) makes no difference. IT IS A FINISH STROKE! I find
    it difficult talking to contemporary font designers because the have no \"history\"
    and or pen skills. Hence, they are clueless as to the origins of the forms they
    recreate. Your Caslon is the victim of drawings taken from scribal forms, drawn
    by those who \"ruled/drew\" forms  instead of penning forms. Once again, take
    up the pen for a bit to understand my \"agenda.\"\r\n\r\nBest wishes\r\nMichael"
  created: '2011-10-03 01:34:02'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "P.S.\r\n\r\n\"The Imperial Caps were originally brush drawn, and serifs built
    up with more strokes than the Carolingian minuscule. So the humanist modification
    was an effort to harmonize a script that was a product of the pen with one that
    was product of the brush.\"\r\n\r\nNo, no no! The serifs (stone forms) were finish
    strokes supplied by the \"cutter\" and not the brush artist. Zapf's Optima was
    taken from a wall of carved forms... why no serifs in that instance? \r\n\r\nAnd
    the serifs of the pen were a natural exit from the letter, rather than a copy
    of the stone cutter's efforts... no one likes an unfinished form, it is as natural
    as breathing. The cursive ethos existed way before, I might add.\r\n\r\nJust like
    the Sans existed in 300 BC... OMG heresy :-)\r\n\r\nIt is all about the tool...
    get my drift?"
  created: '2011-10-03 02:13:11'
date: '2011-07-28 20:52:45'
node_type: forum
title: "Akko\u2014interview and commentary"

---
