---
author:
  name: Claire Bibio
  picture: 120069
body: Hello, i have been looking for some information on the origins of the monospaced
  fonts, the things i find on the internet appear to be very basic. if any of you
  could post links to serious research done on them or good reliable information on
  monospaced fonts like the origins and creation, etc. i would be really grateful.
  thank you very much and happy summer holidays!
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'You may be too young to remember but, once upon a time, there were these
    quaint machines called typewriters; you might want to start your research with
    them, then perhaps move on to the chain-train printer (another relic). '
  created: '2011-08-08 19:15:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Quite soon after the invention of typewriters, which necessarily had monospacing,
    type foundries released fonts in imitation.\r\n\r\nBut were there any monospaced
    fonts before typewriters?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-08 19:44:07'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Like oldnick said, they came about because typewriters and early printers
    were easier to manufacture if they just spaced the letters out evenly.\r\n\r\nThose
    early devices weren't designed to create elegant layouts with fine-tuned spacing;
    they were just a way to get words on a page. "
  created: '2011-08-08 19:49:43'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: In handset type, as well as Linotype and Monotype, numerals intended for use
    in tabular matter (as in an annual report) were monospaced so that the columns
    would align regardless of which numeral you put in them. Monospaced numerals like
    this were referred to as "lining figures," to distinguish them from "old style
    figures." The latter have ascenders and descenders and variable set widths, and
    were designed for use within text paragraphs.
  created: '2011-08-08 20:28:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Lining vs. Oldstyle has nothing to do with monospace.\r\nFigures were always
    monowidth, AFAIK, before the switch to lining c.1800.\r\n\r\nWhich was the first
    font to have proportionately spaced figures?"
  created: '2011-08-08 21:19:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm not sure that this really counts, but while not all fonts of initials
    are monospaced, some are, with every letter being placed in a decorated square
    box. That might be the only instance of a monospaced typeface being created before
    there were typewriters to imitate.\r\n\r\nI do remember from a type specimen book
    a monospaced typeface that was <em>not</em> created to imitate a typewriter. It
    was called \"mailing list type\".\r\n\r\nPage 537 of the Pacific Type Specimen
    book from ATF in 1896 shows it."
  created: '2011-08-08 23:15:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "In western typography, perhaps the first monospaced fonts were indeed in
    imitation of typewriters. Certainly I've seen such in early ATF specimen books
    (circa 1900).\r\n\r\nBut if one looks to Asian ideographic fonts used for Chinese,
    Japanese or perhaps Korean, I would expect you'd see monospaced fonts centuries
    earlier. I don't know if those are interesting for your purpose."
  created: '2011-08-09 01:54:03'
- author:
    name: Claire Bibio
    picture: 120069
  body: Perhaps it's because I have never used a typewriter, but monospaced fonts
    always remind me of computer screens of the 80's? Now, I wonder, did the people
    who made computers had the monospaced fonts in their systems on purpose, because
    of the screen capabilities or maybe monospaced pixel fonts were easy to make for
    them and that's why they used those kind of fonts. Or, maybe it was the screens
    that showed the fonts monospaced and pixel like?
  created: '2011-08-09 02:10:27'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Early computer screens generally used monospaced character displays. It simplified
    the software and hardware, which was not very fast and had very little memory
    compared to modern computers. This \"character mode\" was usually the default.
    The character shapes were hard-coded into the hardware. Displays were advertised
    as having, say, an \"80-column display\", meaning you could fit 80 characters
    across the screen (usually about 24 lines). The size was usually fixed, although
    sometimes there were \"low res\" modes that doubled the height and/or width of
    the characters.\r\n\r\nIn some computer systems (maybe most?) you could change
    out the default character designs to a set that was stored in memory, but this
    meant you had less memory for programs. Usually, you only did this for games or
    graphics programs.\r\n\r\nProportional fonts and other sizes were possible if
    you programmed the computer to use its \"graphics mode\", which let you draw arbitrary
    images on the display and address each pixel independently (you could only address
    characters in character mode). However, this used a lot more memory and was a
    lot slower than character mode. \r\n\r\nThere were computers in the '70s and early
    '80s that had proportional fonts, such as the Xerox Alto and preview displays
    for computer typesetting front-ends. There were also graphics programs for the
    IBM PC and Apple II that let you work with proportional fonts for word processing
    and graphics. The Mac (1984) was the first popular personal computer to use proportional,
    arbitrarily sized fonts by default (no character mode--graphics mode only!), but
    it also included a monospaced font (Monaco). (I seem to recall that some reviewers
    knocked it for not having an \"80-column display\".)\r\n\r\nOne thing that was
    probably also a factor in favor of monospaced fonts in early computers: Before
    CRT displays were economically feasible, you usually interacted with the computer
    using a teletype terminal. This was basically an electric typewriter that could
    transmit and receive character codes to and from the computer. It was natural
    (and technically easier) to emulate the monospaced typewriter output on the CRT
    display, rather than emulate typesetting."
  created: '2011-08-09 03:11:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since typewriters produced tolerable text with monospaced typefaces, and
    since computer line printers (for technical reasons) were designed to produce
    monospaced text as well ([[http://www.quadibloc.com/comp/lineint.htm|theoretically]],
    if someone wanted, a chain printer with limited proportional spacing, like an
    IBM Executive, was a theoretical possibility, but you couldn't do that with most
    other line printer designs like the more common drum printer), it would have made
    sense to design terminals with monospaced printing simply so that people could
    preview reports to be printed on printers.\r\n\r\nAs well, many computer languages
    had restrictions on what columns you could use for statements, because they were
    designed around the punched card.\r\n\r\nBut the clincher was in how terminals
    were designed. Because of the high cost of memory in the early days, a computer
    terminal would normally not have the ability to display arbitrary graphics. It
    would have storage to contain the characters to go on the screen, and use a \"character
    generator\" to look up which dots to display for each raster line of the character.\r\n\r\nIt
    would have involved a considerable amount of extra expense and logic to allow
    different characters to take up different amounts of space on the screen.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, some terminals using unusual technologies, like the Tektronix 4010 or
    other storage-tube graphics terminals would have been an exception, but proportional
    spacing, unless the computer was used for typesetting, would have been considered
    a very wasteful luxury."
  created: '2011-08-09 23:37:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Are monospaced fonts really that essential for programming, or do we use them
    simply because we've always done it?
  created: '2011-08-10 02:16:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Perhaps not. I've got a book on SmallTalk (as used with the Xerox Alto and
    Star) and all the program listings are set in Helvetica. I believe a Helvetica-like
    font was used on-screen for programming it. I also remember that early Mac programming
    languages (MacPascal, AppleScript, Microsoft Basic) used Geneva, a proportional
    font.\r\n\r\nI think one reason monospaced fonts are preferred is because they
    make it easier to spot errors, the idea being that characters are more easily
    distinguished from one another. However, it does seem like there are proportional
    fonts that have that quality, so maybe it's just an excuse and it's just a habit."
  created: '2011-08-10 05:09:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Monospaced typefaces certainly aren't essential for programming. Algol and
    Pascal programs, for example, are often shown in a typeset \"publication format\".\r\n\r\nThey
    had been useful for programming at one point simply because their output would
    be likely to be printed on high-speed printers that for technical reasons had
    to be monospaced.\r\n\r\nAnd, as I noted, proportional spacing on displays would,
    in the past, have been an expensive frill.\r\n\r\nThat being said, monospaced
    typefaces still find some use in computing because many programs are used to produce
    output in <em>tabular</em> form, and a monospaced typeface ensures that \"character
    position\" and \"paper position\" are related, so that no special complexities
    are required in producing tabular output <em>directly</em> from a program that
    was written in a plain fashion, concentrating on its numerical calculations only.\r\n\r\nToday,
    people tend to think of a programming language as a tool in a process of developing
    an application, which is given a fancy user interface for massive sale. At one
    time, programming languages were tools to get numerical answers to questions -
    used almost the way people use a spreadsheet."
  created: '2011-08-10 15:51:10'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: Interesting research could be (or perhaps has been) done on how differently
    people read text vs. numerical strings vs. computer code languages.  I would guess
    that the word recognition mechanisms useful in text reading would not be as effective
    in parsing numerical strings where character recognition mechanisms are probably
    more effective.  Computer languages could variously fall somewhere in between
    on that spectrum.  How those mechanisms operate on fixed width vs. proportional
    spacing is the next question.  Somebody write a grant proposal.
  created: '2011-08-10 16:12:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Practical considerations:\r\n\r\nIf there is a character limit, e.g. restricting
    the length of file names, it's easier to count the number of characters in a monospaced
    text string.\r\n\r\nIf you're cursor-drag selecting a single character to edit,
    skinny proportionally spaced i and l are nasty to isolate.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAlso,
    there is some hardcore cachet attached to monospaced fonts \u2014 code warrior
    camo."
  created: '2011-08-10 17:43:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think it would be possible to design a proportional font better-suited to
    programming than standard text fonts. Maybe such fonts already exist. It seems
    to me that typefaces similar to Bell Gothic or Bell Centennial, optimized for
    screen use, would work well. Verdana looks pretty good in a text editor.
  created: '2011-08-10 18:00:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There are proportional variants of monospace-style fonts, e.g. FF Letter
    Gothic, which has both mono and proportional variants.\r\n\r\nTaking monospaced
    fonts and proportionalizing them, I've experimented with InDesign's \"optical\"
    kerning, but it doesn't have much effect.\r\n\r\nThe biggest improvement seems
    to be by reducing word space to 50\u201370% in H&Js. This has the biggest effect
    on Panoptica, which is \"non-gappy\" (i.e. 'l' and 'i' glyphs don't have huge
    sidebearings)"
  created: '2011-08-10 18:52:13'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: As I've been trying different proportional fonts with text editors and other
    programming tools, I'm noticing that some of them will only work properly with
    monospaced fonts.
  created: '2011-08-10 21:04:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Yes, some text editors assume a monospaced font selection.\r\n\r\nAnd that's
    not even always a bug. One feature some text editors have is a mode where you
    can select a rectangular block of text - this is useful for editing certain kinds
    of data in tabular form.\r\n\r\nUltraEdit has a very good implementation of this
    feature; I don't know about gedit, but Kate had a so-so version of this feature,
    good enough for me to do some editing work on one of my pages like [[http://www.quadibloc.com/arch/ar010003.htm|this
    one]], copying parts the table of instructions from two other different instruction
    modes."
  created: '2011-08-11 00:12:07'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: 'Lead type has been in use for tabular work for centuries. It is highly probable
    that special versions of numerals (and also other glyphs?) were cast on the same
    width for this use. Is that a monospaced font? Or just a monospace usage? '
  created: '2011-08-11 14:15:57'
- author:
    name: jslabovitz
    picture: 112323
  body: "Monospaced fonts are pretty healthy these days. If you start looking, you\u2019ll
    find many variants and styles for different purposes. My favorite is DejaVu Mono
    (http://dejavu-fonts.org/wiki/Main_Page), which is not only well designed, but
    has very large character set, and is in active development.\r\n\r\nAnother reason,
    beyond those cited above, for the prevalence of monospaced fonts in programming,
    is that much of programming happens in a tabular mode.  It\u2019s common to have
    various levels of indentation for blocks of code, which are created using tab
    characters or runs of spaces.  It\u2019s also common to include comments that
    relate the code, but in another \u2018column\u2019 separate from the code itself.
    These conventions depend not only on monospaced visible characters, but perhaps
    even more on monospaced <i>space</i> characters.\r\n\r\nI was going to include
    an example here, but it looks like Typophile doesn\u2019t allow me to use &lt;pre&gt;
    tags. ;-)  Instead, see https://gist.github.com/1140179.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s quite
    difficult to make this style work without presuming a monospaced grid into which
    all characters fit. It\u2019s also quite difficult to create text editors that
    understand a given language to an extent that layout like the above can be done
    with traditional proportional-spaced fonts.\r\n\r\n\u2014John"
  created: '2011-08-11 18:02:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Typophile doesn\u2019t allow me to use tags. ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nYes, some
    more sophisticated typographic tools would be nice at this particular web site!\r\nI
    would really like to be able to use tabs (or hard spaces), and have better control
    over paragraph spacing."
  created: '2011-08-11 20:02:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Allowing the <code>&lt;pre&gt;</code> tag would help. Or maybe that's been
    deprecated or something? The fact that the <code>&lt;code&gt;</code> tag collapses
    whitespace seems stupid.
  created: '2011-08-11 20:11:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I used a workaround once in a posting here. I simply used an editor to change
    every space to an &amp;nbsp; if I remember correctly.
  created: '2011-08-12 17:02:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "the nbsp trick works indeed:\r\n<code>\r\nx&nbsp;=&nbsp;{\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;:foo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;=&gt;&nbsp;'a&nbsp;phrase',&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;#&nbsp;a&nbsp;comment\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;:grotz&nbsp;&nbsp;=&gt;&nbsp;'another&nbsp;phrase',&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;#&nbsp;another&nbsp;comment\r\n}\r\n</code>\r\nI
    have a script for that."
  created: '2011-08-12 17:35:05'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: By the way, the Greeks were using monospaced characters more than 2400 years
    ago. The style is called [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stoichedon|Stoichedon]].
  created: '2011-08-12 18:09:01'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em> the nbsp trick works...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but it causes problems if you
    use it to share Python or AFDKO feature code, which comes up on a forum like this
    fairly often. Especially Python, which uses indentation syntactically."
  created: '2011-08-12 19:17:24'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite> it causes problems if you use it to share Python</code>\r\n\r\nHow
    can it cause problems? For instance, here is some python code:\r\n<code>\r\nfor&nbsp;i&nbsp;in&nbsp;range(4):\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;for&nbsp;j&nbsp;in&nbsp;range(4):\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;print&nbsp;i,j\r\n</code>\r\nOk,
    the html source contains nbsp but if you copy the text above as it is and paste
    it in python, it executes correctly."
  created: '2011-08-12 19:28:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Huh. I guess my assumption about Python was wrong. But I have seen the problem
    with copying feature code from here into FontLab. html nbsp gets pasted in as
    the non-breaking space character (uni00A0), which raises a syntax error.
  created: '2011-08-12 19:38:13'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'That makes sense, I guess. I also guess that you are not on a Macintosh. '
  created: '2011-08-12 20:00:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "No, I'm on a Mac. \r\n\r\nActually, after a bit of testing, it looks like
    the problem is with FontLab. Your code works fine if I run it from Terminal, TextMate,
    or BBEdit, but if I paste it into FontLab's macro editor, it won't work unless
    I convert all the non-breaking spaces to normal spaces. Presumably, the nbsp trick
    should work with feature code, too, if you're not pasting into FontLab.\r\n\r\nSo,
    I guess a quick way to fix this, if you're trying to use the code in FontLab,
    is to paste it into a text editor, then copy it from there and paste into FontLab.\r\n\r\nEditing
    Python and feature code in FontLab sucks, anyway. One more reason to avoid it."
  created: '2011-08-12 20:17:46'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: It might also be useful to have text attachments like this <a href="http://typophile.com/files/totypophile.txt"><strong>Attachment</strong></a>
    which is the script I am using.
  created: '2011-08-12 22:48:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Michel Boyer (ket):\r\nI'm glad to have been of service."
  created: '2011-08-13 01:21:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Allowing the &lt;pre&gt; tag would help. Or maybe that's been deprecated
    or something? </cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll ask the Punchcut guys if it would be okay
    adjust the site configuration to allow <code>&lt;pre&gt;</code> tags."
  created: '2011-08-13 12:25:45'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Thanks for the &lt;pre&gt; &lt;/pre&gt; tag!\r\n<pre>\r\nx = {\r\n  :foo
    \   => 'a phrase',          # a comment\r\n  :grotz  => 'another phrase',    #
    another comment\r\n}\r\n</pre>"
  created: '2011-08-14 02:44:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Cool! I like the way it's styled so that it breaks out the code in a box.
    Thanks, Kent!
  created: '2011-08-14 02:54:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Thank Jared. He approved the change; then got around to making it before
    I could.\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t know if that styling is custom Punchcut css, or built
    into a standard Drupal stylesheet. Seems pretty helpful though.\r\n\r\nSpread
    the word on the Build forum ;-)"
  created: '2011-08-14 12:35:05'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Thanks, Jared!
  created: '2011-08-14 15:26:56'
- author:
    name: jslabovitz
    picture: 112323
  body: I'd edit my post if I could. But it doesn't look possible. :(
  created: '2011-08-14 18:59:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Looks like John Labovitz tried to use \"<code>&lt;pre&gt;</code>\" in his
    post right between the words \"use\" and \"tags\".\r\n\r\nBefore the tag was allowed,
    it just vanished (see Nicks quotation that follows, where it's missing). Now that
    the <code>&lt;pre&gt;</code> tag works, the formatting in his post is messed up.
    Since text inside <code>&lt;pre&gt;</code> doesn't wrap, the rest of his post
    extends way off to the right."
  created: '2011-08-14 19:09:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: There's a time limit on editing posts. One of the admins could fix it.
  created: '2011-08-14 19:10:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Fixed above. (I wonder if changing the allowed tags messed up any other historic
    posts)\r\n\r\nPreviously, the tag was stripped. As it is, you still need to use
    character entities for <code>&amp;lt;</code> and <code>&amp;gt;</code> if you
    don\u2019t want to use the tag itself."
  created: '2011-08-14 20:54:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I guess we'll find out. :-) Thanks again, Kent.
  created: '2011-08-14 22:20:12'
date: '2011-08-08 18:58:21'
node_type: forum
title: Origins of Monospaced Fonts

---
