---
author:
  name: abattis
  picture: 112245
body: "ttfautohint is the new autohinter in town, which I hope will make hinting fonts
  faster and easier, so all type designers can make web fonts that look good on Windows
  :-)\r\n\r\nI made a fun little promotional video, http://youtu.be/81ioae5XNew\r\n\r\nThere's
  more details on the ttfautohint homepage, http://www.freetype.org/ttfautohint\r\n\r\nAnd
  Werner is accepting donations to help fund the development at http://pledgie.com/campaigns/15816"
comments:
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: No contact information? Oh well. If contacting me will help, then please do
    so as I have an offer to make.
  created: '2011-08-09 16:05:36'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Shouldn't Google be paying for this, if they want it so badly?
  created: '2011-08-09 16:44:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@abattis\r\n\r\nI will be blogging about this to spread the word and donating
    some money, too.\r\nBetween what FontLab can do, FontForge can do, and now this
    - it looks like by the end of the year the problem of adequate hinting for Windows
    will be largely solved. At least for Latin-based fonts.\r\n\r\nWhat's needed very
    much is an online front-end for this tool ala the Font Squirrel Generator.\r\nYou
    can't expect designers to be command line gurus and it will be hard to get feedback
    from the community at large without such a tool to upload a font and see the result
    quickly and easily.\r\n(There's no doubt in my mind that it's only a matter of
    time before this tool is integrated into the FS Generator. But the more the merrier.
    :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-09 17:04:42'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "@David: Are you missing my email address (wl@gnu.org)?  I've just added it
    to the web page.  Or do you mean something different?\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-09 17:09:05'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: '@Richard: A GUI is the main thing which I want to add :-)'
  created: '2011-08-09 17:10:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jens\r\n\r\nGoogle? Why is it their problem? Is Windows GDI and TrueType
    <em>their</em> product?\r\n\r\nThe scandal is that Microsoft has not put any resources
    into this. The need for a simplified auto-hinting tool such as this has been plainly
    obvious for years now. \r\nBut so far all they've done is leave everybody swinging
    slowly in the wind, doing absolutely nothing to mitigate the situation for the
    benefit of type designers, web designers, and the billion Windows users out there.\r\n\r\nThe
    really crazy thing is that TTFs look better hinted in DirectWrite, too, so it's
    not as if the issue is being solved technically going forward.\r\n\r\nThe way
    fonts look in GDI is perhaps THE biggest barrier to adoption of web fonts. But
    as far as I can tell - MSFT doesn't give a hoot about it.\r\n\r\nSo be it. You
    might as well complain about the weather.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-09 17:26:30'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "Jens: Neither I or Werner represent Google, and I can't speak for that company.
    Google did already provide some financial support to Werner to start the project,
    and I personally will be surprised if they do not provide any more. I think this
    project is something that many in this community will benefit from though - probably
    even yourself - so I think it makes sense to engage the wider community in helping
    fund it :-)\r\n\r\ndbrerlow: good catch, thanks :)\r\n\r\nRich: You'll note that
    a GUI is mentioned in the video and is the top item on the roadmap section of
    the site :) "
  created: '2011-08-09 17:54:29'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Wow.\r\n\r\nBut can you please switch from pledgie.com to kickstarter.com?
    Latter gets far more foot traffic and the crowd there is far far more engaged
    and enthusiastic. This project has all chances of going viral, and kickstarter
    is the place to be for that. 30K should be more easily achievable there (assuming
    you won't get a large check from a corporate sponsor)."
  created: '2011-08-09 17:57:20'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "\xBBNeither I or Werner represent Google, and I can't speak for that company.\xAB\r\n\r\nI
    was indeed under the impression that you represented Google. But you are involved
    with the Google Font Directory, aren\u2019t you?\r\n\r\n\xBBYou might as well
    complain about the weather.\xAB\r\n\r\nI do, the summer in Berlin really sucks
    this year ;)"
  created: '2011-08-09 18:09:08'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Reposted on HN and reddit.
  created: '2011-08-09 19:13:47'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "@apankrat: Kickstarter is no option, unfortunately.  You must be US citizen
    to use it.  I'm sitting in Vienna, Austria...\r\n\r\n@Jens: Du mu\xDFt einmal
    den Salzburger Schn\xFCrlregen genie\xDFen, so wie ich die letzten drei Wochen
    :-)"
  created: '2011-08-09 19:37:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jens\r\nYou should try Naples, Florida from June through September.\r\nI
    don't bother to check the weather because it's the same sub-tropical oppression
    every day:\r\n90+ degrees with high humidity and a chance of thunderstorms.\r\n\r\nI
    take it you don't disagree with my assessment of Microsoft's behavior in regards
    to this. ;)"
  created: '2011-08-09 20:19:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Companies which publish both layout software and fonts are in a conflict
    of interest situation.\r\nSuch behaviour is par for the course."
  created: '2011-08-09 21:07:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "From the 'How it works' section of http://www.freetype.org/ttfautohint :\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Intentionally,
    ttfautohint adds hints only along the y-axis.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSo other than
    perhaps providing some better algorithms for automating y-direction hints, I wonder
    what ttfautohint does that is significantly different from what we've been able
    to do with a simple batch process in FontLab for well over a decade now -- and
    hence, Rich, perhaps why MS didn't see a need to produce an alternative? --, which
    we also had the ability to edit.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong: I'm glad Werner is
    doing this, and will likely contribute some money, because I like having tool
    options, and when it comes to automation differences in algorithms are as important
    as different capabilities.\r\n\r\nBut if ttfautohint really ignores the x-direction
    completely, then it is of limited interest and is dependent on sub-pixel rendering
    environments, so doesn't help users employing XP standard font smoothing, which
    remains a significant demographic for the Web."
  created: '2011-08-09 21:17:37'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "John: I believe Werner will look into this, but I'm not sure he will produce
    good results in the time that the target $30,000 will allow :( That is certainly
    the long term goal, though :-)\r\n\r\nJens: I am involved with the Google Font
    Directory project as a independent, 3rd party consultant, yes. "
  created: '2011-08-09 21:26:17'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: 'John: I also want to add, I think its important that how it works isn''t
    a secret and can be reviewed and discussed by the public, which is a substantial
    difference in quality to the FontLab process.'
  created: '2011-08-09 21:29:58'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '*blinks slowly* Okaaayy... Mebbe dat anti-rot stuff I bin ''elping sis slop
    on ''er ''ouse is vegging me, but this statement comes quite a few tuns north
    by borth-west to me.'
  created: '2011-08-09 21:32:52'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "T\xE9: huh? :)"
  created: '2011-08-09 21:45:46'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I am a bit surprised to see the y-direction-only approach being criticised
    (here and <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/83829#comment-473413\" target=\"_blank\">there</a>)
    when at the same time 1) this is all that about every webfont producing foundry
    is offering right now and 2) this is what I understand to be the way to go according
    to Microsoft (my reading of some past months' Typophile posts).\r\n\r\nTo be clear,
    I do not say that I appreciate the y-direction-only approach, I only say that
    I observe a contradiction."
  created: '2011-08-09 22:06:26'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "@John: FreeType has an experimental autohinter option (off by default) for
    special `hinting' along the x&nbsp;axis, and I want to investigate whether it
    can be transformed somehow into TT bytecode.  From the file &lsquo;afwarp.c&rsquo;:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\nThe
    idea of the warping code is to slightly scale and shift a glyph within a single
    dimension so that as much of its segments are aligned (more or less) on the grid.
    \ To find out the optimal scaling and shifting value, various parameter combinations
    are tried and scored.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-09 22:28:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave: <em>I also want to add, I think its important that how it works isn't
    a secret and can be reviewed and discussed by the public...</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n<em>...which
    is a substantial difference in quality to the FontLab process.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    aspects of the FontLab process can't be reviewed and discussed by the public?
    [Serious question.]\r\n\r\nThe actual algorithm used to auto-generate the stem
    hints, I suppose. What else?"
  created: '2011-08-09 22:38:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <em>this is what I understand to be the way to go according to Microsoft</em>\r\n\r\nWith
    the caveat that this applies if one is targeting only subpixel rendering environments.
    Part of the continuing need for hinting with regard to webfonts is to support
    the still significant number of users not using subpixel rendering, esp. XP users."
  created: '2011-08-09 22:49:19'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nit's trivial to add hinting &agrave; la FreeType's autohinter
    along the x&nbsp;axis.  Actually, it's even simpler because the blue zone code
    can be omitted (at least for non-CJK fonts).\r\n\r\nOf course, this is on my TODO
    list :-)"
  created: '2011-08-09 23:00:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: " If x complexity = y complexity then I guess all of basic quality manual
    hinting complexity is a ruse. And, when all the x and y hinting is automated,
    what to do about diagonals...\r\n\r\nTo not be too cryptic, you are warned here
    that the gap between y auto hinted normal fonts to average qaulity CT use, and
    even the simplest effective auto hinting of x with modest quality spacing, is
    larger than it might seem. Imagining from your perspective with all due respect."
  created: '2011-08-09 23:24:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ah yes, I see it on to the <a href=\"http://repo.or.cz/w/ttfautohint.git/blob/HEAD:/TODO\">TODO</a>
    list now. Good, good.\r\n\r\nWith regard to expressing the ttfautohint actions
    in high-level hinting command languages, may I request that you prioritise VTT
    in this regard? I'm sure others will disagree and favour FontLab, but my take
    on this is that the people who are most likely to want to manually edit the hinting
    are those who want to do things that FontLab can't do anyway.\r\n\r\n<em>Add full
    OpenType Feature support \u2013 currently, all glyphs which can't be directly
    addressed with a character code in the \u2018cmap\u2019 table are handled with
    a fallback mechanism only.</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't it possible to address them via glyf
    table index, rather than having to support OTL tables?\r\n\r\nAre there any other
    reasons you can think of for supporting OTL tables in an autohinter? Now you've
    got me wondering about auto-generating GPOS device adjustment lookups. :)"
  created: '2011-08-09 23:24:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>the gap between y auto hinted normal fonts to average qaulity
    CT use, and even the simplest effective auto hinting of x with modest quality
    spacing, is larger than it might seem</em>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nI think it is worth
    exploring a very specific target area in terms of x-direction autohinting, though:
    stem density in full-pixel smoothing environments, esp.XP. This is where the absence
    of x-direction hints is most obviously problematic, and where trying to obtain
    better consistency in the darkness of stems is worth some effort in terms of impact
    on both appearance and readability. Sure, the results are never going to be as
    good as manual hinting for these environments including control of spacing and
    other distances, but the results can be better than what Frode showed in the other
    thread."
  created: '2011-08-09 23:33:30'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '"I am a bit surprised to see the y-direction-only approach being criticised
    ..." That would be me, yes. This smells like the 80''s too me: Back when everyone
    converted  analogue to digital the cheapest possible way and as a results forced
    me to grow up through two decades of horrible typography.'
  created: '2011-08-10 01:27:42'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "John: I'm only learning this now. Like four weeks in or smthn. I can do better
    for sure. I already am. And I haven't gotten around to VTT yet.\r\n\r\nEdit: Or
    did you not refer to my own hinting experiments, but rather the autohinter examples?"
  created: '2011-08-10 01:33:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode: <em>Or did you not refer to my own hinting experiments, but rather
    the autohinter examples?</em>\r\n\r\nThese: http://typophile.com/node/83829#comment-473415"
  created: '2011-08-10 03:35:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n<em>\"Don't get me wrong: I'm glad Werner is doing this, and will
    likely contribute some money, because I like having tool options, and when it
    comes to automation differences in algorithms are as important as different capabilities.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWe
    are on the same page! Tool options are a good thing.\r\nFor everybody.\r\n\r\n<em>\"But
    if ttfautohint really ignores the x-direction completely, then it is of limited
    interest and is dependent on sub-pixel rendering environments, so doesn't help
    users employing XP standard font smoothing, which remains a significant demographic
    for the Web.\"</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nHere's where we start to part company. X direction,
    shmex direction. Picky, picky, picky.\r\nIf the font coming out looks a hell of
    lot better than the font going in, with the only effort being the click of a mouse
    or a keystroke, then something really critical has been accomplished.\r\n\r\nIn
    the early years of the twentieth century, Bell Telephone relied on female operators
    to handle the problem of switching. (Remember Lilly Tomlin's caricature?)\r\nAnyway,
    as the phone system grew, the problem of switching started getting out of hand
    and the company undertook a survey and came to the conclusion that, at the current
    rate of expansion, in just a few years, every female in America would have to
    be employed as an operator to handle the volume. Faced with this, a method for
    automatic switching was developed and deployed only a few years later.\r\nIt's
    the same situation here. If we could clone Berlow or Tom Rickner to create an
    army of Berlows and Rickners hey, no problem.\r\nBut that's as absurd as having
    every woman in America employed as a telephone operator.\r\n\r\n\r\nEvery tool
    has it's own personality. At this point I've spent hundreds of hours with FontLab
    auto hinting and FontForge autohinting, and I know exactly what FL will balk at
    and what FF will balk at and what either one will gladly accept and improve.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, fonts that are missing important characters or are internally inconsistent
    present special problems that consume more time. But that's a different issue,
    anyway.\r\n\r\nThe auto hinting provided by the Font Squirrel Generator is also
    quite excellent once you get the hang of the settings and prepping the font to
    get the best out of it. And while the back-end stuff at Font Squirrel isn't open-sourced,
    it's free and that's close enough for me. Kudos to Ethan Dunham for taking the
    bull by the horns. And he's perfectly entitled to profit from it and keep it proprietary
    if that's his druthers.\r\n\r\nWith ttfautohint, I welcome that someone is working
    on yet another tool, open-source, with input from the larger community. When I
    see that somebody like Greg Hitchcock is offering feedback to Werner, I get hopeful.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-10 05:07:07'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "Dave,\r\n\r\nI think my reply caused misunderstandings.  Hinting along the
    x&nbsp;axis is <em>far</em> more complex and demanding than hinting along the
    y&nbsp;axis, at least for the Latin script.  I was just replying to the technical
    side of FreeType's autohinter, which treats both axes (almost) the same.  The
    results are very pleasing for the vertical direction, as ttfautohint demonstrates,
    but not as good for the horizontal one, which can be seen if you use, say, the
    &lsquo;ftview&rsquo; FreeType demo tool to test the various autohinter modes.
    \ And there is no hinting for diagonals at all.\r\n\r\nPlease don't forget that
    the autohinter in FreeType has been designed to do real-time hinting.  In my opinion,
    David Turner has done an excellent job in designing and implementing it.  If you
    remove the real-time constraint, a lot of improvements should be possible.\r\n\r\nThe
    primary goal of ttfautohint was (and still is) to bring the quality of FreeType's
    autohinter to the non-FreeType world.  With the suggestions and wishes you all
    provide, it should be able to make it more versatile.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-10 06:10:43'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nthe main reason for needing OpenType support is automatic script
    recognition.  How shall ttfautohint know whether a particular glyph is Latin or
    Arabic, say?\r\n\r\nRegarding VTT support, this has no priority right now.  The
    next step is to improve ttfautohint's basic abilities so that it does its announced
    job as expected.\r\n\r\nFor the <em>stem density in full-pixel smoothing environments</em>
    problem, as you call it, the already mentioned &lsquo;warper&rsquo; code in FreeType
    might help at a very basic level.  Again, this is something to explore in the
    next months.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-10 06:28:04'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "@Frode: Have you read this nice, old article?\r\n\r\n  http://www.antigrain.com/research/font_rasterization/\r\n\r\nThe
    shown results are quite convincing, and DW ClearType is essentially heading into
    this direction IMHO.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-10 06:32:09'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "lemzwerg: I just read halfway through. It's a bit too much right now, but
    in any case the writer says:\r\n\r\n\"I do respect the pixel grid, but only in
    the Y-direction. In the X direction the sub-pixel positioning must be allowed.
    In this case we can reasonably sacrifice some sharpness (very gently!), but obtain
    freedom.\"\r\n\r\nIn Win XP this sharpness you sacrifice is not reasonable. Yes,
    it can theoretically be done, but the system wasn't designed to allow and the
    system moves slow. This whole thing seems to be written from an engineeer's point
    of view: there's no mention (yet) of the importance of consistent rendering and
    weight of stems and rounds in x-direction. There's a reason why even colour is
    the alpha and omega of type design."
  created: '2011-08-10 09:20:23'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "John Hudson: <i>Which aspects of the FontLab process can't be reviewed and
    discussed by the public? [Serious question.] The actual algorithm used to auto-generate
    the stem hints, I suppose. What else?</>\r\n\r\nI wonder if the output of the
    algorithm, being itself a program, is subject to the copyright of the algorithm
    - as that is the result of the yyparse() function in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_bison "
  created: '2011-08-10 09:25:18'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Karsten \u2013 <cite>this is what I understand to be the way to go according
    to Microsoft</cite>\r\nJohn \u2013 <cite>With the caveat that this applies if
    one is targeting only subpixel rendering environments. Part of the continuing
    need for hinting with regard to webfonts is to support the still significant number
    of users not using subpixel rendering, esp. XP users.</cite>\r\n\r\nI know. This
    was my argument against y-direction-only.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n(The other part of
    the argument is that Microsoft \u2013 and Adobe \u2013 first of all address new
    platform/application versions when making new fonts for these. It allows them
    to make relatively safe assumptions about these fonts' target rasterizer. Independent
    foundries need to address whatever still-popular versions are out there. They
    cannot follow Microsoft's practice \u2013 the premise is a different one.)\r\nResolved
    anyway, however, since Herr Lemberg already wrote \"it's trivial to add hinting
    \xE0 la FreeType's autohinter along the x axis\"."
  created: '2011-08-10 10:44:13'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@lemzerg\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com/ttfautohint-support-web-typography/\">ttfautohint-Support
    Web Typography</a>\r\n\r\nGood luck and keep going. It sounds like you've got
    a solid grasp of the issues and the right priorities.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2011-08-10 15:34:26'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "Thanks, Richard!  Being a very slow worker, I definitely need such a priority
    list :-)\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-10 16:10:30'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "Frode,\r\n\r\nat the cost of larger fonts (due to more bytecode) I think
    your concerns regarding even stem colour along the x&nbsp;axis can be handled
    automatically to a certain extent by a forthcoming version of ttfautohint, using
    the techniques already available in FreeType's autohinter.\r\n\r\nHowever, there
    is room for improvements, using algorithms not part of FreeType, but this is something
    yet to investigate.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-10 16:25:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Werner: <em>the main reason for needing OpenType support is automatic script
    recognition. How shall ttfautohint know whether a particular glyph is Latin or
    Arabic, say?</em>\r\n\r\nAh, that makes sense. In theory, there could still be
    some ambiguities, with the same unencoded glyph being used accessed via GSUB in
    more than one script, but I imagine those situations would be rare.\r\n\r\n<em>Regarding
    VTT support, this has no priority right now.</em>\r\n\r\nUnderstood. I meant that
    if/when you get to the stage of adding support for higher level language expression
    I would favour prioritising VTT talk over e.g. FontLab expression."
  created: '2011-08-10 19:01:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Extensis is seriously considering support. We will likely kick in some funding.\r\n\r\nI
    can only second John's comment on the importance of considering x-direction hinting
    and non-ClearType GDI environments, however. This is important to Extensis, at
    least for another year or two. If there was no plan to address such rendering,
    we probably wouldn't help with funding today.\r\n\r\nRegarding Rich's rejoinder:
    if it doesn't yield good results in the x-direction under GDI greyscale rendering,
    it may be worse rather than better in that environment, which won't fly right
    now for us.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-08-10 21:29:07'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tp\r\n\r\n<em>\"Regarding Rich's rejoinder: if it doesn't yield good results
    in the x-direction under GDI greyscale rendering, it may be worse rather than
    better in that environment, which won't fly right now for us.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI
    understand. And I'm usually the one arguing for Windows users and as much backwards
    compatibility as is feasible. But, forgive the pun, I think it's a grey area.
    There's always a cut-off point. (And I'm not sure what you consider \"good results\".)\r\n\r\nI'd
    love to hear why it won't \"fly\". What's your thinking?\r\nTen years ago when
    I was doing network support in Manhattan, there was no greyscale anymore even
    then. (But I actually did experience a greyscale sighting just recently at a Marriott
    hotel in North Carolina. So, it <em>does</em> exist.)\r\n\r\nBut who's afraid
    of the big bad greyscale wolf?\r\nAnd where is Sii when you need him? How about
    MSFT shares it's telemetry with us so we can actually know what percentage of
    users will get the degraded performance?\r\n\r\nLater,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2011-08-11 01:05:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Without going into painful detail, my estimate is 20% of web viewers are
    viewing on browsers with GDI greyscale rendering. That's too many for us, is my
    take.\r\n\r\nYeah, in a year and a half or two years it will be like 5-8% and
    that will probably be time to give up on these poor people. But not today.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-08-11 07:22:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH: ...prioritise VTT in this regard?\r\nI 2nd the suggestion for the same
    clearly described reasons.\_\r\n\r\nJH: ...the results [of automatic x hinting]
    are never going to be as good as manual hinting for these environments [low res
    enough to make adjacentcy fail regularly enough to effect readability]...\r\n\r\nIs
    so utterly common up to 25-30 pixels per em, that auto hinting developers should
    simply surrender, IMHO, on the grounds that the tri-pronged diversity in x, glyphs
    + designs + x rendering technologies defines the problem as manual, unless someone
    has a breakthrough under development somewhere... ;)\r\n\r\nThen to warp to the
    end of thread, I've been listening patiently to the puzzling over how many Vindows
    users are in Greyscale of some kind, and wonder \"what's the goll-darn difference?\"
    I've worked with clients, off web, where the font developer can make a staggering
    qualitative difference in low ppm text because the users are all in GS mode. But
    if font engineering cannot count on the vast majority or all of the users using
    GS, economics just say no!\r\n\r\nLemzwerg: \"Dave,\"\r\n\r\nI assume this means
    me, though I'm usually either David, dberlow, or \"guy with hair on fire because
    diversity in appearance of text at low res only severs those who seek to retard
    the web for the majority\"...\r\n\r\nLemzwerg: ...don't forget that the autohinter
    in FreeType has been designed to do real-time hinting...\r\n\r\nIf by realtime,
    you mean on-the-fly or otherwise without human intervention, then I guess JH and
    my point of post auto hinting interaction are largely problematic and moot?\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-11 11:50:55'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Sorry, @abattis. Musta been fumed out. Was thinking of Nick's statement right
    before your post.
  created: '2011-08-11 21:33:21'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@John Hudson: Whatever <code>ttfautohint</code> does or does not do, there
    are several cases where the result looks better than the original on my cru&#383;ty
    old Win98 laptop.'
  created: '2011-08-11 21:42:30'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "@dberlow (not called &ldquo;Dave&rdquo; :-) FreeType's autohinter has been
    designed about ten years ago (!) to do on-the-fly hinting.  This then limited
    the possible algorithms to the ones which don't need too much processor time.
    \ It by no means implies that the derived ttfautohint processor has the same limitations.\r\n\r\nThe
    idea of post-processing the hints is probably the future IMHO if ttfautohint is
    going to be integrated into font editors.  As far as I know, no font editor is
    able to <em>add</em> hints.  Right now, all of them <em>replace</em> hints.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-12 05:56:07'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@lemzwerg\r\n\r\n>As far as I know, no font editor is able to add hints.\r\n>Right
    now, all of them replace hints.\r\n\r\nI've added Deltas to existing hints in
    FontLab. But basically you're right and it's all a giant pain in the ass. There's
    no modularity that I can see. Everything is intertwined.\r\nI think of TT hinting
    as connecting the points with rubber bands. Snip one band and all hell breaks
    loose.\r\n\r\nTT hinting seems to me like a very poorly conceived system, frankly.
    It addresses a genuine problem but if Apple/Microsoft could go back and do it
    all over again, I doubt this would be the system devised. \r\n\r\nBut it's too
    firmly ingrained to replace. So here we are.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-12 13:58:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There are a number of proprietary autohinters out there (owned by various
    folks) that do auto-hinting and can produce VTT code, which can then be further
    tweaked by hand. I think I know of three or four such beasts. I tried talking
    one owner of such a proprietary auto-hinter into making theirs publicly available,
    but they resisted due to concerns about support costs/issues. (You know who you
    are! :)\r\n\r\nThis sort of approach seems immensely sensible and sane to me.
    It may or may not be cost effective in all cases, but it clearly is a huge leg
    up on getting hand-hinted fonts for a lot less work.\r\n\r\nA regular auto-hinter
    that doesn't generate VTT code is still highly useful, of course.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-08-12 22:05:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"TT hinting seems to me like a very poorly conceived system, frankly.\"\r\n\r\nTo
    get to the point would be too much to ask but I'm sure you mean the compiled-to-confusion
    form of TT as shown via FL or VTT  lacks the current UI needs of a user interface
    for \"dummies like us.\"\r\n\r\nOr perhaps not. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-12 23:59:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@db\r\nNot. But not worth pursuing the line of thought. I'm sorry I wrote
    it already. More weather I'm complaining about.\r\n\r\nSpent a lot of time reading
    off my iPhone yesterday.\r\nIt's an existence proof:\r\nTT hinting will eventually
    go the way of the dodo - once you have the pixel density it's obviously not worth
    the trouble. Text clear as a bell, at any size. Print-like in a lot of ways.\r\n\r\nIf
    you'd like to take on THAT thought, I'd love to hear what you have to say.\r\n\r\nForever
    Dumbly,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2011-08-14 16:32:48'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@TP: If the made it public free software, they would absolve themselves of
    the costs :)\r\n\r\n@RF: Sure, everyone acknowledges that this is all a temporary
    measure until those screens are on tablet, netbooks, laptops and desktops, and
    this will take a few years. "
  created: '2011-08-14 18:03:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: John, isn't the typical Macbook somewhere around 130 ppi?
  created: '2011-08-14 19:11:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave: <em>Sure, everyone acknowledges that this is all a temporary measure
    until those screens are on tablet, netbooks, laptops and desktops, and this will
    take a few years.</em>\r\n\r\nThe manufacturing costs of high resolution screens
    increase exponentially as screens get larger, due to the high attrition rate of
    dead pixels and other problems. Screen resolution will likely improve for smaller
    tablets and netbooks but not for laptops and desktop displays. Manufacturing an
    iPhone 4 display with 614,400 pixels for a smart phone is a different proposition
    from making displays of 8,516,520 pixels for a 13\" laptop.\r\n\r\nThe \"Devices
    sorted by size\" chart <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_displays_by_pixel_density\">here</a>
    is instructive. Note that with the exception of the IBM T220/T221 'Big Bertha'
    displays (discontinued) all displays of 200ppi or higher are no larger than 8\",
    with most being below 5\". There is a fairly steady decrease in resolution as
    screen size increases.\r\n\r\nI remember back when ClearType was first announced
    in the late 1990s, the indication from several major laptop manufacturers was
    that they would be moving to a baseline 120ppi resolution within a couple of years.
    It didn't happen. It seems to me that 'those screens' are always 'a few years'
    away.\r\n\r\nIt may happen, but I stopped holding my breath around 2002."
  created: '2011-08-14 19:18:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode, the Macbooks range from 100-130 ppi. My comment re. 'it didn't happen'
    was that 120ppi+ didn't happen in the time frame of a couple of years that was
    expected in the late 1990s, and it didn't happen across the board.\r\n\r\n[Note
    also that 120ppi was only the baseline necessary to hit the ClearType 'sweet spot'.
    There's a long way to go from there to a place where one doesn't need hinting.]"
  created: '2011-08-14 19:26:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Not enough DPI soon enough... I told you so in 2005!? ;)
  created: '2011-08-14 23:10:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "You did indeed, David. And you were right.\r\n\r\nI was lulled into false
    confidence by the first signs of 120+ ppi laptops appearing in the early 2000s,
    which I took as a sign that the manufacturers really were going to follow through.
    Instead, such screens became speciality items for high-end machines -- such as
    my 133 ppi Toshiba and 145 ppi Dell -- and there wasn't a general increase in
    average display resolution for either laptops or desktop displays. In trying to
    understand why it didn't happen, I learned more about screen manufacturing and
    the problems of attrition as you increase resolution. So now I'm sceptical about
    the likelihood of significant increases in resolution for larger devices."
  created: '2011-08-15 04:16:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Re: Hi DPI screens.\r\nGonna be a long time comin', that's for sure. abattis
    might be as gray as me by then.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, all Werner's got is 377
    bucks according to Pledgie.\r\nAnd a not insignificant percentage of that is from
    me.\r\n\r\nAll talk no action so far, ladies and gentlemen.\r\nI mean, I don't
    want to call anybody cheap but, uh, I heard that one of the guys on this thread
    is so cheap he turns off the gas while he flips the burgers on the barbecue.\r\nBut
    then again, being cheap <strong>can</strong> get results. Copper wire was invented
    when two of the guys on this thread found the same penny at the same time in the
    hotel lobby at TypeCon.\r\n\r\nOnce again the link is:\r\n<a href=\"http://pledgie.com/campaigns/15816\">http://pledgie.com/campaigns/15816</a>"
  created: '2011-08-15 06:06:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> \"All talk no action so far, ladies and gentlemen.\"\r\n\r\nLol, I wish.
    Unfortunately, the unenvisioners had diagnosed the problem as needing a wrapper,
    and 'ave put it in place. On the heels of this suckcess, they now endeavor to
    stuff more Barf into it so that WOFF is going to become a tourniquet around the
    neck of web publishing ;("
  created: '2011-08-15 12:43:42'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nyour last comment is completely cryptic for me.  Could you
    elaborate, please?"
  created: '2011-08-17 04:01:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'lemzwerg, ttf auto hint outputs ttfs, I assume. Since ttf is the actual default
    font format of the web accepted I think by all the major browsers, including the
    latest visions of IE, you have no need to concern yourself with decrypting my
    comment. '
  created: '2011-08-17 06:01:36'
- author:
    name: lemzwerg
  body: "Yes, ttfautohint emits TTFs, but this could be changed to any outline format
    which uses TrueType bytecode for hinting.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-17 06:16:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Perhaps more money would be raised if this were publicized on the web design
    blogs and forums, or perhaps associated with fonts in the Google font directory
    itself - "don''t like the quality of this font''s hinting? Pledge here!" '
  created: '2011-08-18 05:18:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'I think Sii is on the right track, but... I think the idea in a lot of cases
    if for the message to be, "don''t like the quality of this font''s hinting?",
    click here, and the ttf will be auto-hinted, re-manufactured, re-located and re-served. '
  created: '2011-08-18 12:53:24'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "dberlow: Don't put the cart before the horse :-)\r\n\r\nSii: Yes, I'm doing
    what I can to publicize it, and I'll speak to the team about that idea too :-)"
  created: '2011-08-18 15:29:07'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n<em>\"... and the ttf will be auto-hinted, re-manufactured,
    re-located and re-served.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWell, that's exactly what's beginning
    to happen at Kernest Konstellations with the RasterBRIDGE&trade; line of fonts.
    I agree with abattis in that, without good tools, what's the point of reprocessing?
    (I think that's what he meant.) It's the first requirement.\r\n\r\nHave you donated
    yet? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-19 05:34:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Have you donated yet?\r\n\r\nLol, that information is only available in
    the smoke-filled back-rooms of the type mafia cabal. You want to cut off a pinky,
    you're welcome to apply. "
  created: '2011-08-19 14:00:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "abattis quoting me> Don't put the cart before the horse :-) \r\n\r\nI have
    a pretty clear notion that the horse and cart arrangement is seriously in need
    of rethinking, from one end of web typography, (what the font?) to the other,
    (what the output device?). At http://t.co/EzTowt1, one can read the early public
    emergence of the notion that it's more than fonts that need hinting. To be as
    clear as possible on this, people outside of my circle of fiends are starting
    to realize that a three column grid with two gutters and two margins has a lot
    in common with a lowercase \"m\". The sooner the developers of auto-hinting catch
    on to this, the sooner the idea I just spotlit will spread from fonts to where
    hinting needs to begin. Have at it ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-20 12:52:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...ttf is the actual default font format of the web accepted I
    think by all the major browsers, including the latest visions of IE...</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    isn't any single default font format of the web today, because compatibility with
    the large number of older versions of browsers still in use requires serving at
    least two different formats.\r\n\r\nIE9's raw TTF webfont support requires installable
    document embedding permission and is explicitly targeted at libre fonts. Personally,
    I wouldn't want to set the embedding bits on a font in that way just to be able
    to serve it to IE9 in that format, since that embedding bit can be legitimately
    interpreted by any piece of software as allowing the font to be installed on the
    recipients system, independent of the action or intention of the webfont licensee.
    IE9's raw TTF support really only makes sense in the context of libre font licensing.\r\n\r\nWith
    the release of Safari 5.1 in July, current versions of all the major desktop browsers
    now support WOFF, as do a growing number of mobile browsers. If we eventually
    reach a point at which there is a single served format <em>equally</em> supported
    everywhere, that format is going to be WOFF, because that's the only format on
    which browser makers are all concentrating, the only format that is on the road
    to being a W3C web standard, and the only format for which there is a web-specific
    implementation spec and test suites.\r\n\r\nThe font data content of WOFF files
    is likely to remain predominantly TTF for text for a long time to come, I reckon;
    but we've already seen an increase in the use of CFF for display web type."
  created: '2011-08-22 22:35:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I wouldn't want to set the embedding bits on a font in that way just to
    be able to serve it to IE9 in that format, \r\n\r\nHow you say in Canadian? The
    horses are out of the barn on the embedding bits. \r\n\r\n>WOFF, because that's
    the only format on which browser makers are all concentrating\r\n\r\nProof is
    in the pudding, and the pudding says otherwise. \r\n\r\nAnd on the side, like
    a slab of quivering bacon, if that's not true, then what's all the nonsense about
    absorbing SVG into OT?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-23 13:05:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ..with a hint of lime, it saves time ;-)
  created: '2011-08-23 15:05:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, we're clearly eating different puddings. As I pointed out, as of July
    all the major desktop browsers support WOFF, all the major browser makers have
    been actively involved in the specification of the WOFF format. I don't see effort
    being expended on other formats, and IE9's raw TTF support is so heavily laden
    with caveats about the installability of the fonts on remote systems that I doubt
    if many of your colleagues will want to license for it.\r\n\r\n<em>And on the
    side, like a slab of quivering bacon, if that's not true, then what's all the
    nonsense about absorbing SVG into OT?</em>\r\n\r\nIn general terms, it is about
    finding a way to add colour and animation to scalable fonts. In specific terms
    it is about supporting emoji characters."
  created: '2011-08-23 21:48:16'
date: '2011-08-09 15:43:19'
title: Support Web Typography, Support ttfautohint

---
