---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "I was sent a pre-print of the following paper by Gordon Legge and Charles Bigelow
  after asking Legge about some critical comments he made on Miles Tinker\u2019s work:
  \u201CDoes print size matter for reading? A review of findings from vision science\u201D\r\n\r\nNow
  it\u2019s available from the <em>Journal of Vision</em> here:\r\nhttp://www.journalofvision.org/content/11/5/8\r\n\r\nThe
  comments below are mostly cobbled together from Legge and Bigelow\u2019s own words.\r\n\r\nLegge
  and Bigelow present evidence supporting the hypothesis that the distribution of
  print sizes in historical and contemporary publications falls within a psychophysically
  defined range of fluent print size \u2014 the range over which text can be read
  at maximum speed. While economic, social, technological, and artistic factors influence
  type design and selection, they conclude that properties of human visual processing
  play a dominant role in constraining the distribution of print sizes in common use.\r\n\r\nThey
  begin by discussing metrics for print size used by typographers and vision scientists.
  \u201CConfusion over definitions of print size has been an impediment to communication
  between the two disciplines, but common ground is necessary to understand our hypothesis.\u201D
  This is probably the most thorough and helpful discussion on type measurement I\u2019ve
  read.\r\n\r\nLegge and Bigelow go on to discuss theoretical concepts from vision
  science concerning visual size coding that help inform an understanding of historical
  and modern typographical practices. Topics in this section are: Oculomotor limitations;
  Spatial frequency representation of letters; and Visual span and crowding. Included
  in this section are observations on optical scaling.\r\n\r\nIn their historical
  survey, Legge and Bigelow found three main trends: \u201C(1) extension of type size
  range from a narrow cluster of fluent sizes in the 15th century to a broader range
  including several subfluent sizes in the 16th and 18th centuries; (2) nearly stable
  size range from the 16th to 18th century; (3) proliferation of type sizes in the
  subfluent range, from zero (for roman types) in the 15th century to 37% of the sample
  of typefounders\u2019 specimens in the 18th century.\u201D\r\n\r\nI think the paper
  is \u2018must reading\u2019 for anyone interested in where typography and the science
  of reading meet.\r\n\r\nPeter Enneson"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One more piece of science that confirms the obvious.\r\n\r\nSo \"sub-fluent\"
    sizes are used for pocket bibles, footnotes and stock tables? Well, yeah.\r\nAnd
    at the other end, 20% of headlines outside the range have very few words. Uh-huh.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026where
    typography and the science of reading meet\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThey are still far
    apart. They would be a little closer if studies like this showed specimens (at
    actual size), and were set in a manner that typographers might find more appealing.\r\n\r\nThis
    study looks just like any other study written for scientists, and shows absolutely
    no outreach to typographers."
  created: '2011-08-10 18:40:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, one of the things I found notable about this article -- I've only read
    in detail the section dealing with spatial frequency, since I've read earlier
    papers on that subject and believe it provides insight into the how and why of
    type design for different sizes -- is that it directly references the writings
    of typographers such as Harry Carter and Bigelow himself (Caslon, Dreyfus, Frutiger,
    Fry and others appear in the bibliography and are similarly referenced elsewhere
    in the article), and seeks to reconcile the findings of the study to the craft
    description provided by those writers.\r\n\r\nSo, for example, the authors cite
    Carter:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CLegibility is all that matters in 6- to 12-point
    types; so that their successful design is a technical, and not in the ordinary
    sense an artistic achievement. In the design of founts from 20- to 72-point the
    artist comes into his element.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd then attempt to express
    an understanding of this statement in terms of their findings with regard to spatial
    frequency. In what way is that showing 'absolutely no outreach to typographers'?"
  created: '2011-08-10 20:55:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think it's quite clear I was referring to its appearance of boilerplate
    academese.\r\n\r\nTypography is visual and practical, not academic\u2014why must
    it meet its science on science's home turf?\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-10 22:36:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Nick, I would have thought you might find the science interesting, also that
    you might find the documentation of historical trends informative and the discussion
    of metrics impressive.
  created: '2011-08-10 23:10:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I already know that x-height is the main effect on functional type size,
    and that newspaper types have a larger x-height than book types, and am not surprised
    that Times Roman falls bang in between.\r\n\r\nThe conclusions as to type size
    in the different genres are of course common knowledge to typographers, as we
    are the ones who determine those sizes!\r\n\r\nI'm very impressed that type size
    is discussed in terms of visual angle, and that cultural categories of publications
    are analyzed en masse, statistically.\r\n\r\nThe documentation of historical trends
    is not interesting per se, as again, this is well-known to me as a typographer
    with some knowledge of type history. However, I do find the hypotheses presented
    to explain these trends interesting, although this is not really the realm of
    science, as I don't need science to tell me that, for instance, Incunabula type
    was quite large.\r\n\r\nStatistical analysis of type history is fascinating, but
    it's about social culture, not human visual processing.\r\n\r\nFor instance, the
    paper notes that subfluent sizes proliferated in the 16th-18th centuries, and
    hypothesizes that economic reasons restricted type size. But I would argue that
    while that may have been the case, the sizes themselves were not subfluent, because
    people would have just held the books closer to get the angle up to 0.2\xB0.\r\n\r\nThe
    paper's historical analysis of historical types is, IMO, flawed in the frequent
    manner of relying on extant type specimens, rather than type in use. Robert Thorne,
    for instance, issued no type specimens during his foundry's most prolific years;
    too busy. I have published type specimens, but the amount of usage of the types,
    based on sales or volume of readership cannot be construed from the specimens.
    \r\n\r\nI theorize that hardcover books have larger type because they are heavier,
    so people are less likely to hold them close, which is tiring, so they rest them
    on their laps, further away.\r\n\r\nI'm not impressed that fluency is assessed
    by speed in lab tests. \r\nOf course, that can;t be done for history.\r\n\r\nI
    find it particularly meaningless to typographers that the paper comes to the conclusion
    that almost all running text and most display text falls within the \"fluent\"
    range of 8 to 80 points.\r\n\r\nDo we really need scientific confirmation of a
    theory that most type is set in a convenient size to read, which is 8 to 80 pts?\r\n\r\nI
    don't therefore believe that the concept of \"fluent reading range\" is of any
    scientific use.\r\n\r\nYou might just as well say that people generally wear shoes
    that fit them.\r\n\r\nI'm afraid I'm not really interested in this kind of material
    in the guise of science, because I'm not interested in pure science, and only
    read this paper reluctantly, as it was recommended by Peter. But I would be interested
    in it if it were in the form of a well-illustrated, well designed book <em>A History
    of Type Size</em>, viewing type history through the prism of size, with all the
    facets of the ecological approach of which this paper speaks, one of which might
    be sidebars with its charts and graphs, but not too much else in the way of science.
    I don't think such an \"anecdotal\" cultural study would suffer from a lack of
    significance.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-11 03:26:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, I tend to see the paper\u2019s greatest strength where you see it\u2019s
    most outstanding weakness \u2014 in showing convincingly that legibility (the
    fluent range / the zone of robust affordance) is not a narrow ledge but a wide
    plateau. I suspect this can be generalized to include factors other than size.
    \r\n\r\nThis perspective might counteract the tendency prevalent among design
    clients to rely on sources claiming 12 point is the most legible size and Times
    New Roman the most legible font.\r\n\r\nYes designers and typographers tend to
    stay within the fluent range. But designers also know there are optimums within
    this range whose impacts are not effectively measured by reading speed. These
    optimums exist in the realms of boldness, spacing, configuration, and have to
    do with visibility and readability as explored by Matthew Luckiesh and Frank Moss.
    Optimums are niche-sensitive, and subject to countervailing pressures. These pressures
    include issues of gestural-atmospheric thrust (\u2018personality\u2019). Type
    professionals are expert at managing the pressures in relation to the niche. Visibility
    and readability constraints appear to differ for signage and way finding (including
    way-finding on screen and in publications), as opposed to continuous reading for
    extended periods of time.\r\n\r\nSo for me the paper is excellent in what it tries
    to do, but doesn't go far enough."
  created: '2011-08-11 15:23:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "For me the section summarizing scientific research on type size and reading
    speed is the most informative survey I've seen since [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/wordrecognition.aspx|Kevin
    Larson's paper on word recognition]]. It is, I'm afraid tough sledding, and I
    think I will have to study some of the linked papers to really understand it.
    Larson's essay was easier to get through. But on the other hand, I think Larson,'s
    conclusion\u2014that we always identify letters before we read words\u2014is probably
    wrong, and the conclusions in Legge and Bigelow are probably right!\r\n\r\nI agree
    with Peter that we could use a lot more strong research like this, using other
    measures than reading speed, such as Luckiesh's visibility and readability (fatigue)
    measures. But personally I am grateful for such a summary. To me much of the \"legibility\"
    research is poor, and what is summarized here is some excellent and informative
    work. \r\n\r\nNick, I can understand not wanting to plow through the scientific
    section, but your idea of \"pure science\" seems to me off. When science gets
    it right, it describes and understands reality correctly. So it's up to us then
    to make use of that understanding. And \"us\" includes practitioners as well as
    applied scientists. \r\n"
  created: '2011-08-11 18:31:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Peter: <em>This perspective might counteract the tendency prevalent among
    design clients to rely on sources claiming 12 point is the most legible size and
    Times New Roman the most legible font.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point. But hence rather
    ironic to observe the typography of this paper!\r\nWhich leads me to the following\u2014\r\n\r\nBill,
    my comments about pure science relate to Peter's \"where the science of reading
    and typography meet\", i.e. more about the visual presentation of this paper than
    its text content.\r\n\r\nI'm no more interested in pure science than scientists
    are interested in pure typography.\r\nHowever, I suspect I know more about science
    (a couple of A levels) than most scientists know about art, design, and typography.
    Part of this is because art is dropped as a compulsory subject in high school,
    while one is forced to continue with maths and science.\r\n\r\nThe science I keep
    up with is mediated: <em>New Scientist</em> magazine, and books like <em>Guns,
    Germs, and Steel, The Invention of Clouds, This is Your Brain on Music, Awakenings</em>,
    and the totally awesome <em>The Physics Of Consciousness: The Quantum Mind And
    The Meaning Of Life</em> (Evan Harris Walker).\r\n\r\nAs Peter observes, the \"ecological\"
    approach of the content is a step in the right direction, but the design of the
    document indicates that the paper is targeted at scientists, not typographers.\r\n\r\n<em>So
    it's up to us then to make use of that understanding.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, I suggest
    it's the responsibility of scientists to make sure their research is properly
    presented and understood by the profession into which they're poking their noses,
    and by the general public of font users, bearing in mind that the press will mangle
    their findings horribly.\r\n\r\nThis is particularly germane as they are presenting
    their work in the medium which they are investigating.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-11 19:55:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">to make sure their research is properly presented and understood by the
    profession into which they're poking their noses\r\n\r\nPoking their noses? \r\n\r\nPsychologists
    can do research about sex, marriage, racial prejudice, and sports, but as soon
    as they \"poke their nose\" in typography, they'd better look out! "
  created: '2011-08-11 20:21:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Damn right.\r\n\r\nBut what do you mean by \"can do\"?\r\nAre you implying
    that there is no criticism of their work interfering with the work of others,
    in the areas you mention?\r\nEven in their own field\u2014mental disorders\u2014a
    great many psychiatrists (and the informed public) are upset that their reach
    exceeds their grasp. Have you come across the controversy surrounding the changes
    to the DSM?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/therapy-matters/201105/the-new-not-necessarily-improved-dsm-v\">Here's</a>
    what another guy with a bow tie has to say.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-11 21:18:33'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>Psychologists can do research about sex, marriage, racial prejudice,
    and sports, but as soon as they \"poke their nose\" in typography, they'd better
    look out!</cite>\r\n\r\nSince when is science beyond criticism? Almost by definition,
    it needs to be the lease sacrosanct of all pursuits. "
  created: '2011-08-11 21:42:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I totally think science should not be above criticism, especially as criticism
    from observation and experiment is the heart of scientific method. And of course
    it should not be above ethical scrutiny either. My presentation at TypeCon had
    plenty of criticism of science and scientists, both about method and ethics\u2014especially
    of Tinker, but also of Luckiesh. \r\n\r\nBut typographers and graphic designers
    also shouldn't be immune from criticism. \"Poking their nose\" into typography
    implies that it is somehow illegitimate or improper for science to do research
    in this field. Typographers are so superior that they can tell scientists to keep
    away. That's where I think Nick's complaint is pompous and wrong. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-11 21:56:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>\u2026reactionary rubbish\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nBill, I have repeatedly
    made the distinction between reading research (against which I have no complaints),
    and readability measurements of named type products.\r\n\r\nOnce more: readability
    is a function of document design, which is the business of designers, and is not
    something that can be indexed to a typeface by measuring how fast a lab document
    is read.\r\n\r\nReadability research which comes to conclusions such as \"font
    A is more readable than font B\" is the real rubbish.\r\n\r\nSo yes, you scientists,
    please explain how we read, but kindly refrain from opining on which typefaces
    are most readable."
  created: '2011-08-11 22:40:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, how, in your practice, are your judgments of readability, legibility
    and aesthetics made? Does a model of reading play a role? Can a psychophyisical
    understanding of seeing play a role? Does an understanding of \u2014 or intuitions
    about \u2014 the perceptual-processing impacts of type-form manipulations enter
    into it? \r\n\r\nTo what extent are your judgments empirical knowledge-based?
    If they are empirical knowledge-based, how is this knowledge-base constructed
    or acquired? If your own individual experience is their basis, how does your  judgement
    become conditioned, corrected or refined? Do you have personal touchstones in
    these areas?"
  created: '2011-08-11 23:54:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You want an autobiography?\r\n\r\nHaving followed the science of reading
    from way back (Cyril Burt!) I presume it's had some slight effect on my work,
    but really, David Ogilvy's two how-to books were probably the biggest theoretical
    influence, and my mentor Raymond Lee, from whom I learned how to lay out copy.
    \r\n\r\nI work like most designers \u2014 keep an eye on what's happening, follow
    my interests, engage in some professional development, please the client, target
    the work according to reader demographics, take account of the medium, try different
    approaches to a brief and see what works best. Occasionally there is feedback
    from focus groups.\r\n\r\nI don't think there is any way that scientific knowledge
    of how reading works can add anything useful to what we, as typographers and type
    designers, already know through centuries of empirical practice and the culture,
    institutions and traditions we've developed.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-12 08:07:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] \u201CI don't think there is any way that scientific knowledge of
    how reading works can add anything useful to what we, as typographers and type
    designers, already know [\u2026]\u201D\r\n\r\nNick, is confirmation or refinement
    of accumulated craft knowledge of use? Does it help or add something to have explicit
    empirical confirmation (in the realm of establishing statistical significance),
    and a graphic visualization, for the tacit knowledge of designers that, from the
    point of view of general legibility, there is a fluent range?\r\n\r\nIs it not
    of interest to you that \u2014 as the Legge / Bigelow paper explains \u2014 at
    text-letter sizes the spatial frequency channel used by the visual system filters
    information at the density of 3 cycles per letter? In a typical letter this corresponds
    to the stroke on the left hand side of the letter, the counter adjacent to it,
    and the stroke on the right. I take this to confirm the fact that in reading at
    normal text sizes, cues to the identity of the words are drawn from all three
    areas (as well as perhaps, the between-letter spaces), so designing the white
    (or what happens in the counter \u2018domain\u2019) in conjunction with the black
    has a real significance.\r\n\r\nI know, you\u2019re allergic to certain types
    of claims, but I think your negativity about this paper is warranted. It\u2019s
    a step in the right direction, though I might have questions about some of the
    assumptions made in the explanations section."
  created: '2011-08-12 15:01:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026is confirmation or refinement of accumulated craft knowledge of
    use?\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIt banalizes. The privileging of speed as the measure of
    readability says it all\u2014the hammer is the only tool in the box.\r\nOther
    measures, e.g. whether the reader remembered the message or responded to it, are
    so much softer, but these are what really matter to the practitioner.\r\n\r\n<em>Is
    it not of interest to you that \u2014 as the Legge / Bigelow paper explains \u2014
    at text-letter sizes the spatial frequency channel used by the visual system filters
    information at the density of 3 cycles per letter?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, it's fascinating.
    But the importance of designing white space is not a scientific discovery. I was
    taught it in first year Foundation at art school, according to Itten, and subsequently
    by my calligraphy teacher who started us off doing pages of \"o\"s and \"n\"s.
    It appears to be self-evident to most designers and artists, appearing in patterns
    since the early days of human culture. I would assume that we were inspired by
    Mother Nature's patterns in animal and insect markings, so figure-ground relationships
    may be a quality of fractal-growth shapes.\r\n\r\nPostScript language, as a means
    of defining letter shape, places emphasis on vector edge lines rather than solid
    shape, but at the same time, FontLab offers one the option to draw glyphs in either
    solid or outline mode, and view \"clean\" by hitting the grave key. Following
    this <em>line</em> of thought, drawing type glyphs rather than punching them would
    seem to be the paradigm shift, implemented by pantographic router (woodtype) and
    LB Benton's device. \r\n"
  created: '2011-08-12 17:29:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] \u201CYes, it's fascinating.\u201D\r\n\r\nGood!\r\n\r\n[Nick] \u201CIt
    banalizes.\u201D \r\n\r\nEmpirical documentation of the fact that there is a fluent
    range and getting a strong graphic representation of the fluent-range curve banalizes
    and makes you insensitive to the fact that there are other levels of concern,
    including those Luckiesh tries to isolate and those you list above?\r\n\r\nI know
    that even for some very basic things like ease of visual word-form resolution,
    readings speed is not a revealing measure."
  created: '2011-08-12 18:18:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick you don't seem to be aware that there is already research showing that
    different typefaces have different readability. Even by the reading speed standard,
    I believe that italic faces are shown to be slower in reading text than roman.
    I believe this is a very robust result, but I'd have to check on the studies.
    \r\n\r\nAnd as I have reported, Luckiesh distinguished readability of text by
    reading fatigue as indicated by blink rate, and did get differences not only on
    different typefaces, but also on light, medium, bold, and extra bold. \r\n\r\nAnd
    using a distance test on signs, the testers of Clearview type found the medium
    Clearview weight to be readable at a greater distance than the federal standard
    Highway Gothic Bold.\r\n\r\nThere are different aspects to readability, but on
    reading speed, blink rate, and distance, all different measures, differences in
    typefaces have show up. \r\n\r\nAlso you see to think\u2014absurdly on Typophile!\u2014that
    practitioners *agree* on craft, which is far from the case. For example, Theodore
    Low de Vinne in 1885 strongly attacked Scotch moderns for their high contrast,
    arguing that they were less readable than old styles. And he influenced the design
    of Century, which thickened hair lines. You have revived and defended the readability
    of Scotch modern. \r\n\r\nThere is lots of disagreement about craft\u2014just
    look at the hinting threads!\u2014and tests have indeed distinguished the readability
    of different type faces. Wake up and smell the coffee. \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-08-12 22:09:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There are different aspects to readability, but on reading speed, blink
    rate, and distance, all different measures, differences in typefaces have show
    up.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, there are different ways to measure readability, but mostly
    speed is used.\r\n\r\nDifferences in typefaces\u2014product testing.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026you
    see to think\u2014absurdly on Typophile!\u2014that practitioners *agree* on craft,
    which is far from the case.</em>\r\n\r\nI referred to \"what we know as typographers
    and graphic designers\", there was no inference of unanimity.\r\nWhat I know about
    the Scotch Modern may be different from what De Vinne knew, but what we both know
    is informed by our experience as practising typographers. \r\n\r\n<em>\u2026tests
    have indeed distinguished the readability of different type faces\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nProduct
    testing of a handful of typefaces in a limited environment.\r\nBut one Caslon
    is as good as the next, isn't it? \r\n\r\nIsn't there something seriously wrong
    with pitting one typeface against another in the same layout, and assuming the
    results hold for all layouts, all typographers, all media, all readers, all content,
    today and tomorrow? \r\n\r\nDon't you think typography plays a dominant role in
    determining the readability of typefaces?\r\nOr is one typographer as good as
    the next?\r\n\r\nMight it not be the case that types respond differently to different
    typographers?\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-08-12 23:07:15'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: How does one test that?
  created: '2011-08-12 23:20:37'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] \u201C\u2026 pitting one typeface against another in the same layout,
    and assuming the results hold for all layouts, all typographers, all media, all
    readers, all content, today and tomorrow \u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nNick, in the best
    science that's not what\u2019s assumed. Luckiesh takes his multifactorial pittings
    to indicate that readability is an integral effect [his words]. I don\u2019t think
    Legge or Bigelow would have a different view. "
  created: '2011-08-13 00:44:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, the point is that because there is difference among practitioners,
    research may shed light on which solution is best for a given usage. So contrary
    to your haughty dismissal of scientific research as inherently having nothing
    to teach experienced practitioners, it has in fact taught them. \r\n\r\nI think
    the tests on Clearview Highway are a clear example of that. Not everyone would
    have agreed that the somewhat lighter weight would be better. Research succeeded
    in finding an empirically demonstrated superior result. And that is also one that
    can be experienced by viewers. And by the way that is always true when the science
    is right.\r\n\r\nAs far as \"product testing in a limited environment\", of course
    testing is always limited. You have general theories and specific tests. That's
    the way it always works. You find out how far the general theories hold by further
    testing. Unfortunately, the theory has been so poorly articulated in reading,
    that the research has not been very informative. This is not an inherent problem
    of scientific method, but a weakness of legibility and readability research in
    particular. \r\n\r\nI'll post later on the role of typography, which is an important
    question.\r\n \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-08-13 00:48:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>Typography is visual and practical, not academic\u2014why
    must it meet its science on science's home turf?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen a scientist
    submits a paper for publication, a number of things are taking place.\r\n\r\nOne
    of them is that he would normally submit his manuscript according to the standards
    of the journal which is receiving it, and they will typeset it in their standard
    form. Which will be dull and boring, since it's bad enough that academic papers
    tend to be full of such \"penalty copy\" as mathematical formulas.\r\n\r\nI've
    seen, of course, many exceptions to that rule - in conference proceedings where
    each paper is usually \"typeset\" in double columns by the submitter. So most
    papers are done on a typewriter or a line printer with a lower-case print train,
    and one or two lucky submitters have some exotic equipment like a 200 dpi electrostatic
    printer.\r\n\r\nOf course, that was back in the old days. Today everyone and his
    dog has a laser printer and desktop publishing software. But they don't know how
    to use it. <em>At least few scientific papers make use of Comic Sans and Papyrus.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    other is that these papers are basically intended for reference by other scientists
    in the same field. Even review papers, although an entrance into the literature
    of a field, aren't intended for laypeople or undergraduates.\r\n\r\nIf, someday,
    the psychovisual study of typography got to the stage of producing monographs...
    well, that's an exaggeration - it has reached that stage on occasion - as Legros
    and Grant (<cite>Typographical Printing-Surfaces</cite>, Longmans, Green 1916)
    attests - let alone textbooks, I expect they will receive decent typography.\r\n\r\nLikely
    dull and workmanlike instead of flashy and spectacular, though. Better not to
    attempt too much in someone else's field than make a fool of oneself. Scientists,
    unlike cosmetics companies, don't have the budget to hire graphic designers."
  created: '2011-08-13 01:38:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Luckiesh takes his multifactorial pittings to indicate that readability
    is an integral effect [his words].</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, I exaggerated.\r\nNonetheless,
    I don't believe that the integral effect is a straight sum, as it were, of the
    the components of a layout\u2014which is holistic. \r\n\r\n<em> So contrary to
    your haughty dismissal of scientific research as inherently having nothing to
    teach experienced practitioners, it has in fact taught them.</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    you're conflating science and technics. These are not the same: \r\n\r\n1. Experiments
    which address general principles\r\n2. Product testing\r\n3. Product development\r\n\r\nClearview
    is just about the only example of the scientific method being used in type product
    development, but is it science or technics? What did the tests contribute to general
    theory or practice, other than to determine that a lighter weight of Clearview
    was better for highway signs?\r\n\r\n<em>This is not an inherent problem of scientific
    method, but a weakness of legibility and readability research in particular.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    scientific method is more successful in some areas than others. \r\nThe weakness
    of which you speak suggests that readability is too soft a subject for useful
    science.\r\nScientists may think otherwise, beguiled by the fact that type appears
    to be quite simple and many of the parameters of typography are numerical.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I might change my mind if they start doing readability experiments with metafonts.\r\nWhy
    has no-one thought of this? After all, Don Knuth is a star.\r\n\r\nJohn, up until
    1960 <em>The Penrose Annual</em> separated its content into General Articles and
    Technical Articles, which always had exemplary design and typography of charts
    and graphs. \r\n\r\nEdward Tufte has opened the eyes of a lot of designers to
    the possibilities of The Visual Display of Quantitative Information, as have exhibitions
    at the Design Museum in London.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-13 05:18:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] \u201CNonetheless, I don't believe that the integral effect is a straight
    sum, as it were, of the the components of a layout\u2014which is holistic.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you suppose \u201Cintegral effect\u201D means?\r\n\r\n\u201C\u2026 readability
    / too soft \u2026 [s]cientists may think otherwise \u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nEase of
    rapid automatic visual word-form resolution for a particular type of a particular
    weight in a specific setting is in principle quantifiable. Luckiesh\u2019s work
    with blink rate suggests that this is so. It seems to be a matter of the efficiency
    \u2014 or signal-to-noise ratios \u2014 in the cortical integrational routines.
    These routines comprise the gathering of statistics about the prototypical identity,
    local combinations and global distribution of the role-units spread across the
    word. The gathering of statistics about prototypical identity, a process I call
    quantization, relies on what is known today as feature-binding. To arrive at the
    knowledge that component x is an ascender, the visual system must bind statistics
    about length to statistics about aspect; similarly, to arrive at the knowledge
    that component y is a b or p-type bowl, the visual system must bind statistics
    about closure to statistics about curvature. Feature binding, local combination
    detection and global distribution discrimination are arguably \u2014 and presumably
    measurably \u2014 less efficient under crowding or with noise, or under conditions
    of non-optimal phase-alignment.\r\n\r\nEase of moving along the line for a particular
    type at a given size, leading, line length and inter-letter spacing is tractable
    as well, by studying ocular mechanics.\r\n\r\nYour idea of readability involves
    more than ease, but (if I've got your usage right) embraces it. That\u201Ds okay,
    but saying readability is to soft is to hard and fast."
  created: '2011-08-13 13:26:32'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I meant of course to write: \u201Cbut saying \u2018readability is too soft\u2019
    is too hard and fast.\u201D"
  created: '2011-08-13 16:55:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Even by the reading speed standard, I believe that italic faces
    are shown to be slower in reading text than roman. I believe this is a very robust
    result, but I'd have to check on the studies.</em>\r\n\r\nI recall the same, and
    I reckon that this a potentially very fruitful area for further research. Italics
    are distinguished from romans by a variety of factors (form, slant, compression)
    applied in a mix of varying degrees. This means that it should be possible to
    measure relative reading speed when those factors are mixed in different ways."
  created: '2011-08-13 21:29:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Readability research which comes to conclusions such as \"font A is more
    readable than font B\" is the real rubbish.\r\n\r\nNick, this is your claim that
    I was contesting by pointing out both the case of italic vs roman, and the specific
    test of Highway Gothic vs Clearview Highway. As I said what you can test and give
    results about is a comparison of fonts under similar conditions, with the same
    measure. And here you are just flat wrong: there are sound conclusions from research
    saying \"font A is more readable than font B,\" under a specified set of conditions,
    with a particular measure. \r\n\r\nInstead admitting that the evidence is indeed
    there, you drag in a red herring of whether it is science or \"technics\", or
    in other words applied science or engineering. This is irrelevant. It is still
    research using empirical testing, and your claim under any reasonable reading
    is still contradicted by the facts. \r\n\r\nYou can go on denying that empirical
    testing can inform us about readability, but frankly I don't think you will have
    any credibility in light of the hard evidence that contradicts you. For starters,
    even the one case of the Clearview tests refute your above claim."
  created: '2011-08-13 22:26:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The reading speed differences between roman lower case and italic are discussed
    in Miles Tinker and Donal Paterson's very first study in their STUDIES OF TYPOGRAPHICAL
    FACTORS INFLUENCING SPEED OF READING [1928] using the Chapman Cook Speed of Reding
    test. The study is titled INFLUENCE OF TYPE FORM ON SPEED OF READING.\r\n\r\nSUMMARY
    AND CONCLUSIONS\r\n1. A speed of reading record was obtained for texts set up
    in roman lower case, italic, and all capital letters. Comparisons were made between
    all capital versus lower case text, and between italic versus lower case text.
    There were 640 subjects used in the experiment.\r\n2. The text in lower case letters
    was read 13.4 per cent faster than that in all capitals. The difference in favor
    of the lower case text is highly significant. There were 4.74 words read per second
    of the all capitals and 5.38 words per second of the lower case text.\r\n3. The
    text in lower case letters was read 2.8 per cent faster than the italics. The
    direction of the difference was consistent for all sub-groups. The subjects read
    5.08 words per second of the italics and 5.22 words per second of the lower case
    text.\r\n4. The following conclusions seem justified by these data: (a) Text printed
    in all capitals is less legible than material in lower case letters and slows
    down speed of reading to a very marked degree. (6) Text printed in italics is
    slightly less legible than material in lower case letters and decreases speed
    of reading somewhat.\r\n\r\nIn their discussion Tinker and Paterson state:\r\n\r\nLower
    case text was read only 2.8 per cent faster than italic text. Reasons for this
    difference being so small are found when we compare the two texts: (1) The material
    in italics covered exactly the same space as that in lower case letters. Therefore
    no extra space is present to produce a probable increase in total number of fixations.
    (2) Word form in italic printing is very similar to word form in lower case text.
    However, we, must bear in mind that the difference between means in each sub-group
    was always in favor of the lower case text. This indicates that italic text is
    actually harder to read than lower case text. It is possible that greater effort
    was expended in reading the italics. This increased effort may have reduced differences
    between italic text and lower case text and thus obscured true legibility differences.
    Greater eye strain may have been involved in the reading of the italic material.\r\n\r\nLuckiesh
    and Moss didn't do a comparable study using visibility and blink rate.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be interesting to determine if all capitals, roman uper and lower case and
    italics have different critical sizes and fluent ranges."
  created: '2011-08-13 22:32:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>And here you are just flat wrong: there are sound conclusions from research
    saying \"font A is more readable than font B,\" under a specified set of conditions,
    with a particular measure.</em>\r\n\r\nBill, that's what I said, but drew a different
    conclusion.\r\nIt doesn't prove that font A is more readable than font B, except
    in a very specific set of circumstances.\r\nHow many asterisks should one add
    for circumstances other than highway signage?\r\nThis is product testing. What
    scientific hypothesis does it address?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI am being quite specific
    about readability.\r\nIt's the document that is being measured, not the typeface.\r\n\r\nIn
    the first place, a typeface is not a physical object the performance of which
    can be measured like a machine or a biological organism, or chemicals in a test
    tube.\r\nIt is a set of abstract shapes which exist in the collective and individual
    conscious.\r\nFonts, which scientists purport to measure, are another matter.\r\nBut
    they are under the impression that fonts are a set of hard and fast shapes.\r\nThey
    are not.\r\nFonts are instruments which are used by typographers (or whomever)
    to create documents.\r\n\r\nWhat is being measured is not the readability of typefaces
    or fonts, but the readability of the handiwork of people using these tools, as
    well as the reading ability of the test subjects.\r\nThe measurement tool is not
    a direct inanimate gauge, but the response of a select cultural group, filtering
    the instrumentality through the medium of language.\r\n\r\nWhat is being measured,
    the readers or the document?\r\nIt is certainly not the typeface, at anything
    other than a vast remove.\r\nThis cultural complexity is what makes the scientific
    concept of \"typeface readability\" so soft.\r\n\r\nIt's pointless to compare
    the readability of anything so general as typefaces, when their functionality
    is so specific to media \u2014 just look at the way that hinting methods and browsers
    produce an array of readability from the same typeface.\r\n\r\nCompare font as
    instrument with musical instrument.\r\nWhat is the playability of a musical instrument?\r\nDifferent
    musicians can play the same notes and produce quite different effects.\r\nThe
    listening environment has some effect.\r\nAnd one can hear the same music and
    be moved to tears, later, to boredom.\r\n\r\nAnother set of playable instruments:
    golf clubs.\r\nI don't believe science can tell you whether to use the wood or
    the iron, to chip or pitch with your wedge, and so on.\r\n\r\nThe paradox of type
    is that that part of the instrument appears to be part of the output.\r\nBut it
    never is\u2014the process always transforms the font.\r\nJust is there is no homunculus
    within one's brain, representing one's ego, there are no letter shapes in digital
    fonts, they are pure data.\r\n\r\nBill, I am no reactionary luddite.\r\nI'm a
    debunker of bad science, and I would have thought that an advocate of science
    and typophile such as yourself would support rather than admonish me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-14 00:30:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok here is about the issue of layout and readability, which you Nick, asked
    about. \r\n\r\nFor a start, I think it is important to realize that there are
    different measures of readability, reflecting different aspects, and they may
    not agree. For example there are threshold measures regarding contrast, Luckiesh's
    \"visibility\". And there is of course reading speed, a performance measure. There
    is also the performance measure of ability to read at a distance. \r\n\r\nIn addition
    there are fatigue measures, such as Luckiesh's measure of increase in blink rate
    over time. If we take this supra-threshold idea of \"ease of reading,\" meaning
    low effort or low fatigue, then there are obviously many factors affecting readability.
    \r\n\r\nFor starters, there are huge factors that don't involve visual features,
    once you are above visual threshold levels. The research on fatigue, such as that
    discussed in the book Cognitive Fatigue, edited by Phillip L. Ackerman, shows
    that interest and skill of a person makes a huge difference to time-on-task fatigue.
    If the subject is boring or too difficult for the reader, he or she will find
    it extremely fatiguing to try to read. Similarly, how well written the text is,
    from the point of view of rhetoric, will also have an impact on reading fatigue,
    as whether it is enjoyable to read will affect reader fatigue.  \r\n\r\nAbove
    visual threshold levels, these non-visual aspects I suspect are in general more
    important than the visual ones\u2014either layout or typeface\u2014to reading
    ease or fatigue.\r\n\r\nHowever, both layout and typeface have an impact, as Luckiesh
    found. Luckiesh found that both leading and line length for a given typeface affects
    reading fatigue. Luckiesh did not test this very broadly but his results seem
    pretty good.\r\n\r\nLuckiesh did get somewhat surprising results here, finding
    that shorter lines than normal typographic practice in books are less fatiguing.
    Here I think there needs to be more research on fatigue vs reading speed. It may
    be that there is some gain in reading speed with longer lines even if they are
    less fatiguing. Also Luckiesh's blink tests generally need to be reproduced using
    his guidelines, which nobody has attempted yet.   \r\n\r\nTinker tested leading
    and line length, but on these issues I don't think his Chapman-Cook reading speed
    is reliable, because it involved a search task as well as a reading task. Also
    his results run too contrary to typographic wisdom, and also lack any smooth curve.
    Frankly on this issue I dismiss Tinker's results as unreliable. \r\n\r\nI believe
    that other researchers have duplicated Tinker's finding on italic, and I wouldn't
    buy it from Tinker alone, though the search task may not have had such an impact.
    \r\n\r\nLuckiesh did find a difference between typefaces, and most notably between
    different weights of the slab face Memphis, with the medium weight being more
    readable than the bold or the light. \r\n\r\nAnd yes, Nick, even different versions
    of Caslon might be expected to have different readability. Luckiesh found Caslon
    Old Face less readable measured by blink rate, though not by reading speed. However,
    judging by his book, this was Caslon Old Face printed on coated paper, which is
    thin and spidery. It had \"low visibility\" as measured by Luckiesh's visability
    meter, because of its lightness. Caslon Old Face when printed by letter press
    on rough paper was a much more dark and robust face at text sizes\u2014really
    a different face. For this reason both Monotype and Linotype showed their Caslons
    on both rough and smooth paper. \r\n\r\nMy own Caslon follows the weight of Linotype
    Caslon Old Face printed on rough paper. Particularly at 10 point, I think it looks
    more robust than Adobe Caslon, and I would expect mine to be better, though the
    differences may be small. \r\n\r\nOverall, different typefaces call for different
    settings to be at their best, and I expect that traditional text faces will not
    have great differences when set at their best. But I do expect differences. \r\n\r\nNow
    because how inviting the overall layout is, and aesthetics influence readability
    in terms of fatigue, I expect for good text faces the differences will be a smaller
    part of the pie, so to speak, compared to good writing and good aesthetics. \r\n\r\nBut
    typeface being a small part of the pie on issues of fatigue doesn't mean that
    it can't be tested. By rigorously controlling other factors, including interest
    of reading material, illumination and distance to reading material, Luckiesh was
    able to get results that I think should be reproducible. \r\n\r\nFinally, let
    me say that I expect that some of the most boring and most difficult materials
    are likely to benefit most from good typography. Thus timetables and phone book
    and other similar reference material most benefit in readability from good typography.
    Similarly text books, which are often demanding and sometimes not the most interesting
    material I think are helped greatly by good layout. \r\n\r\nOverall, I think the
    fatigue measure is most likely validate a lot of typographic layout practice that
    reading speed alone doesn't do a good job of differentiating.    \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-08-14 00:35:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, my last was cross posted with yours. \r\n\r\nThe test of Clearview
    vs Highway Gothic were NOT just a test of documents, they were a test of typefaces
    against each other for highway signage. \r\n\r\nWhat is being tested is the hypothesis
    of what is most readable at a distance when taking up a comparable size of sign.
    This is a test of typefaces in a given CONDITION, not a given document, and thus
    they do refute your statement, and your false claim that science can't ever compare
    typefaces, only particular documents. They can test for typefaces under given
    conditions, that is, broad CLASSES of documents (unlimited in actual number),
    such as highway signs.\r\n\r\nThe hypothesis being tested is not of the generality
    as would be an hypothesis say about the ideal combination of stroke weight and
    width of character. But it still has generality because it applies to a broad
    class of events, and predicts that Clearview Highway will be consistently readable
    as greater distances. This has some universality and so is a scientific hypothesis.
    \r\n\r\nNick I don't know what exactly your views are about science, but your
    declarations on what science can't research seem to me not only anti-scientific,
    but demonstrably wrong. You don't seem to understand how controls work in science,
    and how these can be used to test particular variables in particular conditions,
    even when other factors that normally influence the results are present. You control
    those other variables\u2014such as size and distance\u2014and test the impact
    of one variable\u2014typeface in the case of Clearview vs Highway Gothic. "
  created: '2011-08-14 00:58:32'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] \u201CIt's the <em>document</em> [my contrastive emphasis throughout]
    that is being measured, not the typeface.\u201D\r\n\r\nI think this statement
    needs to be refined.\r\n\r\nStrictly speaking, <em>response patterns</em> to <em>specific
    settings</em> under controlled environmental conditions <em>using</em> manufactured
    <em>documents containing type</em> are being measured. This is to make claims
    about affordances of a specific typeface at a certain size, line length and leading,
    or to make comparative claims about affordances at different sizes, leadings,
    etc for different types or settings. The focus of attention can also be on types
    of types.\r\n\r\nSince affordances change at different sizes, etc., any claims
    about the legibility of the letters in the font or the readability of the type
    in use will have to be conditional, not absolute."
  created: '2011-08-14 04:06:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>John, up until 1960 <strong>The Penrose Annual</strong>
    separated its content into General Articles and Technical Articles, which always
    had exemplary design and typography of charts and graphs.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Edward
    Tufte has opened the eyes of a lot of designers to the possibilities of The Visual
    Display of Quantitative Information, as have exhibitions at the Design Museum
    in London.</cite>\r\n\r\nGood visual communication and layout is a very desirable
    thing, and I don't mean to suggest otherwise. But the <em>Penrose Annual</em>
    is a place where designers are published, and it isn't reasonable to expect psychologists
    to be designers <em>even</em> when they're attempting to study design.\r\n\r\nReadability,
    as opposed to legibility, is a subject that at least seemed to be soft enough
    to be difficult to study. Recently, in these forums, it was noted that an early
    method used to test readability by measuring how often a reader blinked as a measurement
    of the effort made in reading had been rediscovered after a period of neglect.\r\n\r\nI
    consider that to be very good news, since it seems to mean to me that there is
    finally some hope of there being some useful valid scientific input on readability.\r\n\r\nBut
    I will admit that we can't expect too much. If one looks at science news about,
    say, discoveries about human behavior and society through observation of primates
    or other scientific studies, what one will often find is scientific evidence of
    things everyone knew about human nature - on the level of platitudes.\r\n\r\nSo
    typographers aren't likely to learn a lot of things they didn't already know from
    readability research. Having a \"scientific\" basis for what they already did
    know isn't usually going to be directly useful; we're past the point where a designer
    needs \"scientific <em>proof</em>\" in order to convince a client that six-point
    type is not optimal for readability.\r\n\r\nEventually, though, working in their
    own way from a solid foundation, instead of taking what \"everyone knows\" for
    granted, I think that psychovisual researchers will find occasional unexpected
    nuggets of information that will enrich typography.\r\n\r\nBut it won't be much
    or soon - yes, they are in their own little world, as it were, with only limited
    relevance to the practising typographer. That's not something to worry about,
    it's just the way it is."
  created: '2011-08-14 15:04:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Though I have great respect for Nick Shinn's understanding of graphic design,
    including both history and type design, I am distressed to have spent so much
    time controverting his concerns, because I think they are groundless. Efforts
    to understand readability, including of particular typefaces, pose no threat to
    type design or graphic design, but will help it as the science gets more and more
    informative and robust results.\r\n\r\nAnd this paper in fact has a lot to teach
    us as a very valuable review of the scientific research and type history. Let
    me start with just one fact. Legge defines \"critical print size\" as \"the smallest
    character size for which reading is possible at maximum speed.\" Critical print
    size is something quite different from the smallest size that a person can distinguish
    letters, which is the \"visual acuity\" threshold, similar to what we all have
    been tested for by eye doctors. The striking finding here is that \"critical print
    size is at least two times larger than acuity letters for normally sighted subjects,
    and the difference is often much larger for people with low vision.\" (p. 6-7)
    \r\n\r\nThis is a very significant finding, because it says that other factors
    than the ability to identify separate letters are crucial to fluent reading. What
    this says is that even by the standard of reading speed, there is a huge difference
    between legibility, defined as the ability to distinguish letters in isolation,
    and readability. \r\n\r\nThose \"other factors\" are what I and others working
    on text type have long labored on in trying to make our typefaces readable, and
    it is encouraging that however much we succeeded, at least our quest has had a
    point to it. \r\n\r\nAnd the specific research using gratings with fixed, regular
    spatial frequencies, and crowding in the parafovea, do seem to tell us something
    about these \"other factors\" in critical print size being twice the acuity size.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the aspects that is intriguing to me is that the critical print size is very
    close to the ideal print size, as measured by reading speed. In other words, the
    smaller type, just above the threshold, is the best for reading. This is not discussed
    in the paper, but my feeling is that at these small sizes, optical effects are
    quite strong, and need to be compensated for. This is one of the things I did
    in my [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/WilliamsCaslonText/|Williams Caslon Text.]]
    My feeling was that some of the things done for very small text, typically for
    readability of type 8 point and below, for ideal readability should be done to
    some extent at 10 or 11 point sizes. In particular this involves not having too
    fine hairlines, which visually seem to disappear more quickly, in a non-linear
    way, as you make type smaller. There is a lot more to it than this, as I have
    discussed in my [[http://ilovetypography.com/2010/11/02/reviving-caslon-part-2-readability-affability-authority/|ilovetypography
    article]] and most recently in the current issue of [[http://www.printinghistory.org/publications/printing-history.php|Printing
    History]].\r\n\r\nOverall, I think the appropriate response to this article is
    not resentment at science \"poking its nose\" into typography, but gratitude for
    good work that can help us in the field of type. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, Bigelow
    is the co-creator of the Lucida type family, winner of the MacArthur Prize and
    Goudy awards, and head of RIT's School of Print Media. The idea that he is in
    this paper with scientist Legge \"poking his nose\" into something he doesn't
    know about is laughable.     "
  created: '2011-08-14 16:24:56'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nickshinn\r\n\r\n<em>\"David Ogilvy's two how-to books were probably the
    biggest theoretical influence\"</em>\r\nAs relevant today as when they were written.
    IMHO."
  created: '2011-08-14 16:37:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@William Berkson:\r\n<cite>I am distressed to have spent so much time controverting
    his concerns, because I think they are groundless.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course, the
    concerns are understandable. In our present age, science enjoys so much prestige
    and power, that there is at least a potential for a new \"scientific\" way of
    doing things to be taken up at the expense of the experience and wisdom of a craft
    that has been built up over a long period of time.\r\n\r\nI agree that this is
    very unlikely in the field of typography, and that a contribution from science
    is to be welcomed, but I also admit that some degree of vigilance is still in
    order."
  created: '2011-08-14 17:26:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Knowledge is power, as Bacon said, so there is always a concern about how
    that power might be misused. But frankly I don't think the danger today is of
    science being paid too much respect, but rather too little. On climate change
    and economics there seems to be little attention paid to very hard won knowledge.
    \r\n\r\nIt is folly to pit science and art (and design) against one another. They
    both are high culture, and both need support and respect. "
  created: '2011-08-14 20:12:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In climate change, I agree, but if the only choice available to prevent catastrophic
    global warming is a drastic cut in energy use, with all the economic consequences
    that entails, I'm not surprised at the preference for wishful thinking.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is, I believe that we have an option that both solves global warming and
    gives us secure and plentiful energy supplies. Nuclear power.\r\n\r\nIn economics,
    while there is much about economics that is scientific, the discipline as it exists
    at present has, in my opinion, blind spots.\r\n\r\nMarxism may be to scientific
    economics as astrology and alchemy are to astronomy and chemistry; but the rich
    and powerful of free-enterprise societies have managed to partially corrupt the
    discipline of economics as it is practiced here as well, I fear. Although the
    history of George III and the American Revolution may be part of the problem.\r\n\r\nHere's
    a simple example.\r\n\r\nLet's say it takes you three hours to mow your lawn.
    It would cost $30.00 to have a professional lawn care company come in and mow
    it fore you. At your regular job, you are paid $15.00 per hour.\r\n\r\nNow then:
    your local city council passes a law that says it's illegal to mow your own lawn,
    and you <em>must</em> hire a lawn care company to do it.\r\n\r\nHave they just
    saved you $15.00?\r\n\r\nThe answer is, not necessarily. Maybe things are slow
    where you work, and so you're on a three-day work week. So you don't have the
    option of working an extra two hours at your regular job to earn an extra $30.00
    to have your lawn mowed.\r\n\r\nTherefore, you would be better off if you could
    transform an additional three hours of your labor into additional wealth, even
    if less efficiently, by mowing your own lawn.\r\n\r\nBut if you go to a conventional
    economist, and suggest that the country would benefit if tariffs were raised,
    so that unemployed people could produce things that are currently bought with
    (scarce! - we keep having to fight with other countries to get them to lower their
    trade barriers) foreign exchange as cheap imports... he will tell you you're crazy,
    and Adam Smith proved that this is all a load of bunk, and so on.\r\n\r\nNow,
    quantum mechanics and special relativity do tell us that when a scientific discipline
    contradicts \"common sense\", it's not <em>necessarily</em> wrong. But Adam Smith's
    arguments were presented in plain English (and they're applicable to some cases;
    India's ban on gold imports are an example) not differential equations. So we're
    not dealing with stratospheric heights of reason far beyond a layperson's understanding.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, when other economists are right, they're ignored - I suppose you may have
    been referring to the repeal of Glass-Steagall and things like that. But there
    were economists who said it was safe to do that.\r\n\r\nAs \"The Adventures of
    Unemployed Man\" recounts, only one renegade Economalien warned of the danger..."
  created: '2011-08-14 21:17:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>The hypothesis being tested is not of the generality as would
    be an hypothesis say about the ideal combination of stroke weight and width of
    character. But it still has generality because it applies to a broad class of
    events, and predicts that Clearview Highway will be consistently readable as greater
    distances. This has some universality and so is a scientific hypothesis.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not a broad class of events, when considering the huge variety of media and documents
    in which fonts can be used.\r\n\r\nThis is a font product test of Highway Gothic
    vs. Clearview, for a very specific kind of document (a certain kind of highway
    sign), and has very little universality or generality. Highway signs are a tiny,
    odd niche of typography.\r\n\r\nBill, do you seriously believe that the hypothesis
    \"ClearviewHwy 5-W  is a better US highway sign font than Highway Gothic E(m)\"
    is hard science, and not merely font product comparison? The extreme conditionality
    (to use the term introduced by Peter) of such \"research\" (with a dose of product
    marketing) is what makes the science so soft if any universality is to be claimed.
    \r\n\r\nHighway signs are designed, as are driving conditions (by highway engineers
    and legislators), and therefore it is wrong to even assume that the US results
    today would be applicable elsewhere or in the future, although they probably are,
    given the crudeness of Highway Gothic fonts, and the top-notch design of James
    Montalbano.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rd_fig2_4264.png]\r\n\r\nI
    hypothesize that 99% of graphic designers would choose Clearview.\r\nHow could
    anyone with a modicum of typographic acumen not pick Clearview, with its larger
    x-height and more open counters, to be the better face for this job?\r\n\r\nHowever,
    it is wrong to see the Clearview vs. Highway Gothic font tests as a refutation
    of Highway Gothic as a typeface\u2014Interstate, a version of Highway Gothic with
    comparable sophistication, weights, and styles to Clearview, would no doubt give
    it a run for the money.\r\n\r\n<em>You don't seem to understand how controls work
    in science</em>\r\n\r\nI have consistently stated, in the many Typophile posts
    in which I dismiss typeface readability as a scientific notion, that the multiplicity
    of variables involved in typography, and the elusive quality of many them (hard
    to control), makes this aspect of reading research so soft it's bunk. \r\n\r\n<em>Incidentally,
    Bigelow is the co-creator of the Lucida type family, winner of the MacArthur Prize
    and Goudy awards, and head of RIT's School of Print Media. The idea that he is
    in this paper with scientist Legge \"poking his nose\" into something he doesn't
    know about is laughable.</em>\r\n\r\nYes it is Bill, and I would never suggest
    that. If you review what I said, I criticized the scientific profession in general
    for poking their noses, and Mr Bigelow is not a scientist AFAIK, so you are twisting
    my words.\r\nBully for him for getting involved in this inter-disciplinary project,
    and including design literature sources in the review.\r\nNow let's see him finish
    the job and present this work to his own profession in an appropriate manner.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-15 01:02:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick you are equivocating about the meaning of \"science\", and how general
    something has to be to count as science. But in any case you originally were talking
    about sound \"conclusions from research.\" This is empirical research, and scientifically
    valid because it is testable through observation and experiment, and is repeatable.
    And it is valid in spite of the many variables involved. They controlled the other
    variables and got a scientifically valid comparison. That is what is at issue,
    not how universal the theory is. Again, a red herring. \r\n\r\nYou are also simply
    repeating that there are too many variables, begging the question. And again,
    this just shows an ignorance of science. There are a myriad of variables involved
    in biological processes in the body, but this hasn't stopped science from testing
    the influence of particular processes, such as red blood cells in respiration
    or insulin in sugar use. \r\n\r\nAt any rate, I have concluded that it is futile
    to try to shake you from your certainty that you will never have anything to learn
    from science about the readability of typefaces, and I'll stop here. \r\n\r\nI
    am very interested in hearing more about the content of this paper though. "
  created: '2011-08-15 01:37:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick you are equivocating about the meaning of \"science\", and how general
    something has to be to count as science.</em>\r\n\r\nI am differentiating between
    hard science and science which is so soft it's bunk.\r\n\r\n<em> They controlled
    the other variables and got a scientifically valid comparison. That is what is
    at issue, not how universal the theory is. Again, a red herring. </em>\r\n\r\nIf
    so, you are the one who introduced it: \"This has some universality and so is
    a scientific hypothesis.\"\r\n\r\n<em>There are a myriad of variables involved
    in biological processes in the body, but this hasn't stopped science from testing
    the influence of particular processes, such as red blood cells in respiration
    or insulin in sugar use.</em>\r\n\r\nScience has its limits.\r\nIt's not just
    the quantity of variables involved in reading that's problematic, but their intractability.\r\nMeasuring
    the physical properties of biological matter is not quite the same as measuring
    cognitive response to cultural artefacts.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-15 02:40:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\nClearview is superior to Highway Gothic in most respects.
    However, I can see <em>one</em> advantage Highway Gothic has: it is bolder.\r\n\r\nSo,
    under one set of poor viewing conditions, the Highway Gothic characters might
    become white blobs. Under another, the Clearview characters might become invisible.
    At least it is possible to see the shape of a blob.\r\n\r\nThis is not to say
    that I think Highway Gothic is better; it clearly isn't. Just that it seems as
    if it should be possible to do even better than Clearview - if it were made slightly
    bolder, its superiority over Highway Gothic (if that's its main competition) would
    be made more obvious and indisputable to even the most typographically unsophisticated
    individual.\r\n\r\nAh, but after a short search, I see that it was deliberately
    made significantly lighter because at night, when there legibility is usually
    the most serious problem, signs hit by headlights and seen by drivers with vision
    problems will likely have the white area appear to expand, and so the design was
    intended to deal with that specific problem. And the adoption of Clearview as
    the replacement for Highway Gothic is proceeding apace, and so there's no problem
    with acceptance by state road authorities."
  created: '2011-08-15 02:41:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026this just shows an ignorance of science\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nNow you're
    being as hubristic as you accused me of being!"
  created: '2011-08-15 02:43:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2011-08-15 02:53:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "It's not hubris, it is just an observation based on long experience. I spent
    a lot of years studying history and philosophy of science, got a PhD on the subject
    in the process, and have taught it and published books and articles about it.
    It doesn't make me right about anything in particular, but it does mean I have
    some familiarity with the subject. \r\n\r\nThe objection of \"too many variables\"
    in my experience shows ignorance of the history of science, as that could have
    been said of any field before its breakthrough ideas or discoveries. And some
    aspects of visual perception are in fact already well understood by science, contrary
    to what you seem to think. For example, the fact that the visual nervous system
    has a process that is structured to pick out edges is well established in spite
    of \"many variables.\" And we already have distinguished individual type faces
    under specified conditions\u2014NOT JUST INDIVIDUAL DOCUMENTS\u2014so as I have
    said the \"too many variables\" objection is already refuted in numerous ways.
    \ \r\n\r\n\u2014And the point of my saying that the Clearview tests have a level
    of generality is just that they go beyond individual documents, and apply to conditions
    with potentially unlimited instances\u2014unlimited numbers of signs. --Not bound
    to specific documents.\r\n\r\nMore to the point this very article that we would
    be better discussing has a robust result showing that critical print size is twice
    the threshold for visibility under the same light. That's another example of an
    interesting finding, in spite of \"many variables.\" "
  created: '2011-08-15 03:21:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It is hubris, and you're patronizing me.\r\nBut you're right, the meta-discussion
    of whether this research is relevant to typographers has been much too general,
    and should focus on specifics in this paper, such as critical size/acuity threshhold
    size.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-15 06:26:01'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>Highway Gothic has: it is bolder</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's too bold. It just
    looks like a black blob from a distance. "
  created: '2011-08-15 13:54:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Russell is right about what the research seems to indicate: that the boldness
    is a problem. The concept is that the increased counter space (white space) helps
    readability at a distance. By the way, I think it would be interesting to see
    whether this holds for visual acuity, or it is mainly for whole words. In other
    words, testing letters on their own vs several words. \r\n\r\nIncidentally this
    result aligns with Luckiesh's finding that it was less fatiguing, measured by
    blink rate, to read the medium weight of the slab serif Memphis, compared to the
    light and bold weights. Frutiger has also argued that there is a \"right\" normal
    weight, and the concept goes back to scribal practice, with an ideal ratio of
    nib width to height of strokes.  "
  created: '2011-08-15 15:53:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026less fatiguing\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThe concept of fatigue is somewhat
    loaded, as during reading blink rate reduces to one fourth normal (non concentrating).\r\n\r\nTherefore
    if you blink more, you are closer to normal.\r\n\r\nNOT blinking is in fact the
    stressful activity.\r\n\r\nBut as people can read for long stretches at one quarter
    normal blink rate, reading none of the weights is fatiguing.\r\n\r\nBlink rate
    measures concentration, not fatigue."
  created: '2011-08-15 16:08:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick have you read any of Luckiesh? It might be appropriate to read him before
    dismissing him for making an elementary mistake\u2014which he didn't in fact make.
    \r\n\r\nThe normal suppression of blinking during reading slowly breaks down with
    time-on-task, namely as we read continuously for longer times. This is the basic
    finding of Luckiesh. He also found increases in blink rate for very small text,
    low light and other conditions that you would expect to cause fatigue. Also the
    people involved in these tests report feeling more fatigued. \r\n\r\nFor Luckiesh
    the *inverse* of blink rate is an indication of higher readability. The higher
    increase in blink rate indicates lower readability.\r\n\r\nLuckiesh was acutely
    aware of the fact that many things affect blink rate other than visual fatigue,
    and he tried to control the other variables. \r\n\r\nSo yes, not blinking is stressful,
    and causes a build up of fatigue as time goes on, and we blink more. Luckiesh
    argued that there are other stressors also involved, including non-optimal leading,
    line length, typeface, boldness etc. And these show up in blink rate. \r\n\r\nThe
    key idea here, which Luckiesh got from Ponder and Kennedy, is that blinks serve
    not only to wash the eye, but also as some kind of mental relief and refreshment.
    My own hypothesis, based on a number of discoveries in the past 30 years, is that
    blinks allow for the circulatory system to refresh brain chemicals such as dopamine
    used in neuro-transmission in the visual cortex. "
  created: '2011-08-15 18:37:43'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: Yell louder or speaking more clearly.
  created: '2011-08-15 18:55:21'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "A fascinating discussion. \r\n\r\nInterestingly enough just 4 days ago a
    type family appeared on myfonts directly influenced by readability studies: [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/sofiebeier/pyke/|Pyke]]:\r\n\r\n<em>An
    early version of the typeface was subjected to experimental legibility investigations
    of distance and time threshold methods*. Participants were exposed to different
    variations of the most frequently misread lowercase letters. \r\n\r\n*Beier, S.
    & Larson, K. (2010) \u2018Design Improvements for Frequently Misrecognized Letters\u2019,
    Information Design Journal, 18(2), 118-137\r\n</em>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-16 12:12:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks Florian for the link! \r\n\r\nNot impressed by Pyke as any advance
    on readability. \r\n\r\nFirst of all, as I said two years ago when Kevin Larson
    reported on some of this research at a TypeCon panel about readability, I very
    much doubt that ambiguity at thresholds is a big factor in readability, particularly
    for those with normal vision. There is no good scientific reason to think that
    ambiguity at thresholds has any big effect *suprathreshold*. There seems to be
    an untested assumption here that the effects are linear, and I think that is very
    unlikely to be true, given that other type effects are not linear with optical
    scaling. \r\n\r\nThe impact of even some suprathreshold ambiguity is open to question.
    For example, the fact that 'l' and 'I' are confusable (suprathreshold) in many
    sans faces does not seem to have impeded the acceptance of these faces much at
    all, or lowered their readability noticeably. It doesn't seem to be much of a
    problem except for those of us who come from Illinois, like me. When combined
    in words, it seems that the impact of even suprathreshold ambiguity is greatly
    decreased, or attenuated.  \r\n\r\nThe paper of Legge and Bigelow I think reinforces
    the point that suprathreshold factors are critical by showing that the critical
    reading size is twice the visibility threshold size. What is happening to affect
    the difference is a big part of the story. Following the results of Luckiesh and
    astute analysts from Theodore Low Devinne (1885) to Frutiger (today), I suspect
    that readability factors have to do more with rhythm (affected by character width)
    and weighting of strokes. Again, this is reinforced by this paper, which looks
    to periodicity (tested using the gratings) and crowding as critical factors in
    reading.     \r\n\r\nThe other modifications of the Bodoni style that Sofie Beier
    undertakes do I think contribute to readability. But these features are all already
    present in old style and even in transitional type. And Beier doesn't introduce
    the descending f in or hooked l in roman, so \"removal of ambiguity\" part only
    applies to opening up the counters\u2014which are already features of old style
    and transitional serif typefaces. And the lower thick-thin contrast and fewer
    parallel vertical edges are also features of old style.  \r\n\r\nSo what Pyke
    does is to outfit Bodoni with some old style features keeping the proportions.
    Personally, I don't think the wide proportions of Didones are conducive to readability,
    on the grounds of rhythm and spacing. But I acknowledge that this is very debatable
    and hasn't been tested. But I don't think there is any reason, based in either
    research or type history, to think that Pyke is any more readable than any good
    old style or transitional text face.  \r\n\r\nLet me be clear: reducing ambiguity
    is a good thing, in my view, but it is far from the main issue. And the reduction
    in ambiguity in Pyke seems to be no greater than old styles and transitional types,
    nor, for example the recent types of Gerard Unger. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, Fedra
    (also very open counters) in the Sans did introduce a descending f in the roman.
    I personally like it, but it is interesting that Bilak has produced a version
    without the descending f, evidently in response to comments from users. So the
    descending f *in spite of familiarity* from being used in italic, and less ambiguity
    at the threshold of visibility, was trumped by familiarity of the normal roman
    alphabet. "
  created: '2011-08-16 16:08:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I'd better not say anything.
  created: '2011-08-16 16:28:18'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick, and everyone else interested in psychology, I strongly recommend reading
    Keith Stanovich\u2019s book <em>How to think straight about psychology</em>. It
    is a fantastic, easy-to-read book that can answer many of the questions you ask
    here. I think it should be part of every Psych 101 class.\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/How-Think-Straight-About-Psychology/dp/0205685900/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1313520186&sr=8-1"
  created: '2011-08-16 20:07:59'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Thank you William for your account. It is convincing that one can not deduct
    from a size at the threshold to a bigger size in a linear way. After all there
    are fonts especially designed for this threshold region, like this one very recent
    typeface family with cuts only for super small sizes from 3pt to 7pt, I forgot
    the name. I agree with your account of \u201Cnot impressed\u201D, I just wanted
    to add it to the discussion here, to give an example where research influenced
    design.\r\n\r\nOther than that, reading is such a learned and cultural thing too,
    and so much of our capabilities are because we adapt to our environment, just
    therefore I wouldn't be too sure if it is possible at all to really find a \u201Chardwired\u201D
    connection from design to how one processes the read media."
  created: '2011-08-16 20:08:16'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Bill, I hope you will read Sofie and my paper on letter recognition. I think
    it\u2019s a really great collaboration between typographer and psychologist. Though
    at this point, I think Sofie could rightly claim to be both. A common critique
    of studies comparing Times New Roman to Helvetica is that they are uncomparable
    because differ in so many dimensions. In this paper we compare letters created
    within the same typeface style. Three typefaces were designed for and examined
    in the paper, including Pyke. Interestingly, the findings were fairly consistent
    across the three typefaces. I am surprised about your strong critique of threshold
    methodologies. Luckiesh used threshold methodologies, and data collected from
    threshold methodologies is known to correlate with data collected from reading
    speed studies."
  created: '2011-08-16 20:12:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, and everyone else interested in psychology, I strongly recommend
    reading Keith Stanovich\u2019s book How to think straight about psychology. </em>\r\n\r\nKevin,
    I could recommend several books on things you should think straight about.\r\nWhich
    \"101\" books have you read about art, design, advertising, publishing or typography?\r\nBTW,
    do you have any experience or qualifications in these fields?\r\nHow far did you
    study these subjects at high school?"
  created: '2011-08-16 20:36:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kevin, I look forward to reading the paper. Luckiesh used both threshold
    measures and suprathreshold measures, and in his work they did not match. \r\n\r\nMy
    critique is not that thresholds are irrelevant, but that they need to be interpreted
    with great caution, as what happens over threshold is not linear. Also there are
    many different thresholds\u2014contrast, time, distance, etc.\u2014and different
    aspects above threshold, such as reading speed, reading comprehension, and reading
    fatigue. Can you give me some references\u2014preferably links on thresholds and
    reading rates being highly correlated? Do you have a link to your paper with Sophie
    Beier? \r\n\r\nLuckiesh measured visibility thresholds\u2014essentially contrast
    thresholds\u2014with his visibility meter, which however extrapolated above threshold.
    David Rea, a current leading illumination expert, was critical of the extrapolation
    above threshold, though, and said he would not use the visibility meter today
    to measure visibility.\r\n\r\nWhatever the reliability of the visibility meter,
    and I am not clear about this, visibility and readability (a suprathreshold measure)
    as measured by blink rate were different. For example, Memphis bold was more visible
    than Memphis Medium, but less readable. Reading speed for the regular and bold
    were nearly the same. As far as the general correlation of these various factors
    with reading speed, I don't know about this, but I do know that Luckiesh measured
    reading speed two different ways, and found it less sensitive than blink rate,
    with proper controls on other factors. And the readability as measured by blink
    rate did not follow the same curves. He measured normal, unhurried reading speed,
    and also maximum reading speed using text rotating through a window\u2014basically
    similar to the RSVP method today, referred to in Legge and Bigelow's paper here.\r\n\r\nAs
    you know, I think Luckiesh's work needs to be repeated and extended to see to
    what extent it is valid and what we can learn from it. \r\n\r\nWhat I am confident
    about is that more than one measure, not only reading speed, is desirable. One
    of the things that excited me about Luckiesh's work is that he used three or four
    different measures. He at times wrongly minimized the importance of reading speed,
    but he actually regularly used it as well as blink rate and visibility. I think
    we are going to get really robust results on readability when we have better theories\u2014which
    would include the gratings and crowding effects in Legge & Bigelow\u2014and tests
    using more than one variable. That is also the recommendation of a leading methodologist
    in psychological testing, the late Donald T, Campbell. "
  created: '2011-08-16 21:01:50'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick, I see that you have taken offense at my recommendation. I can assure
    you that I did not mean anything derogatory by a 101 level book. I used 101 to
    mean a great starting place. I believe that was the first book that I asked Sofie
    to read as her Ph.D. advisor at the Royal College of Art. While I would not consider
    myself a typographer, I have taken college level classes in art, design, advertising,
    and typography. I am also an avid reader and would guess that I have a better
    than average chance of having read any book about typography that you can name.\r\n\r\nBill,
    I don\u2019t think the publisher has made the paper freely available on line.
    If you send me an email I would be happy to send you a reprint.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-16 21:21:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right Kevin, and thank you for your gracious response.
  created: '2011-08-16 21:30:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Florian: <em>...so much of our capabilities are because we adapt to our environment,
    just therefore I wouldn't be too sure if it is possible at all to really find
    a \u201Chardwired\u201D connection from design to how one processes the read media.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think you have that backwards. We only adapt to environment insofar as we have
    a 'hardwired', i.e. genetic, capability to do so. Reading is a remarkable human
    capability that sits on top of hardwired capabilities of pattern recognition and
    cognition that must, evolutionarily, have preceded the invention of writing, probably
    by hundreds of thousands of years. [Recent studies on human nutrition that I have
    been reading suggest that the human genome has seen no significant evolution for
    60,000 years, and we can pretty safely assume, I think, that core perceptual capabilities
    that would have been essential to hunter gatherer survival over two millions years
    are much older than that.] So there is, at least from the perceptual side, a hardwired
    component to reading which is not 'a learned and cultural thing', which in turn
    suggests that there <em>may</em> be hardwired performance benefits to certain
    kinds of shapes, or certain kinds of spacing, or particular levels of dissimilarity
    of form and similarity of spatial frequency, etc.."
  created: '2011-08-17 02:49:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@William Berkson:\r\n<cite>Not impressed by Pyke as any advance on readability.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    thought that Pyke Micro looked interesting in that regard.\r\n\r\nHowever, I was
    puzzled by their description of the face.\r\n\r\nThey said that the \"i\" with
    a tail, like in the italic, was more legible, and that they incorporated this
    finding into the text version of the face. I checked, and the \"i\" was conventional
    in the \"text\" version as well as the others I looked at.\r\n\r\nAnd they admit
    that Didones are not terribly legible, and they tried to retain the spirit of
    the Didone with legibility improvements, instead of starting from something that
    was already legible. So instead of a new frontier in legibility, apparently all
    it is supposed to be is a humanized Didone."
  created: '2011-08-17 04:32:27'
date: '2011-08-10 02:36:54'
node_type: forum
title: properties of human visual processing play a dominant role in constraining
  the distribution of print sizes in common use

---
