---
author:
  name: blank
body: Do usWeightClass values absolutely have to be a multiple of 100 between 200
  and 900? If use 890 to ensure that a font shows up before another with a weight
  of 900 will anything actually go wrong? I ask because FontValidator and compareFamily
  are both pretty picky about this setting.
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'In most places, no, but there are issues with style linked families and css
    weight declarations. '
  created: '2011-08-12 20:48:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "CompareFamily is picky, but it has nothing against usWeightClass going up
    in increments of 10. (Unless it has been changed in recent years.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-12 22:14:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Ok, that sounds good. Also, are there any issues with values between 900 and
    1000? They seem to work, but the specification stops at 900.
  created: '2011-08-12 22:24:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Do usWeightClass values absolutely have to be a multiple of 100...\"\r\n\r\nThey
    do for use in CSS. Regrettably, the unenvisioners at the controls  of OT and CSS
    \ specifications seem to have gummed up all but 10 values and passed gas on the
    idea of more useful ranges of values last I heard."
  created: '2011-08-13 03:59:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "If you're using EOT fonts referenced by @font-face, Internet Explorer doesn't
    like a weightclass of 1000, but seems okay with 950. (\"Doesn't like\" means \"the
    font will not be imaged.\")\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-08-13 22:28:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In defence of the 'unenvisioners' of CSS handling of weight class, they were
    trying to deal with existing incompatibilities between various software and font
    makers and come up with something that would produce reliable results in browsers
    when authors specify relative rather than absolute weights in CSS. It was a messy
    problem. They could have envisioned and defined some totally new and extensible
    weight range mechanism  -- they still could -- , but that wouldn't remove the
    need for some standardised mechanism of handling existing fonts in a way the produces
    the fewest breakages, which is how I understand what they've done.\r\n\r\ncf.
    John Daggett's slides from his TypeCon 2010 briefing (slides 17-26):\r\nhttp://people.mozilla.org/~jdaggett/css3fontstypecon2010.pdf\r\n\r\nand
    Dave Crossland's notes from that session:\r\nhttp://www.advogato.org/person/crossland/diary/1.html"
  created: '2011-08-13 23:54:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "What exactly would be the downside of having more values available, if as
    you say they still could allow more values?\r\n\r\nAlso, who/what made the decision
    that only relative use of this scale was initially desired/ possible?\r\n\r\nI
    spent a good deal of time in conversation on this when the OT spec was still not
    set on this, and left happily when all present \"agreed\" that this oversight
    was going to be corrected, considering \" computers can count to 1000 just about
    as fast as they can count to ten.\"\r\n\r\nMy point to change this now and then,
    seems like the best idea considering people are still scratching their heads at
    the goofy current state of  OS WT and OS width...\r\n\r\nTisk tisk :) This in
    an environment where developers NOW want reactive design, which these two properties
    sit rather inaequatey in the thick of, instead of being the useful forward looking
    parameters we could now have... :)"
  created: '2011-08-14 00:11:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>What exactly would be the downside of having more values available,
    if as you say they still could allow more values?</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't say that
    they could allow for more values under the existing (usWeightClass) mechanism:
    I was suggesting that they would need a new mechanism, because the usWeightClass-CSS
    interaction is hampered by what text handling systems, e.g. GDI, were already
    doing with usWeightClass, e.g. applying faux bolding to certain weights, while
    other software makers, notably Apple, had decided to treat usWeightClass as unreliable
    data and sniff font names to guess weight. As I said: a messy problem.\r\n\r\nI
    don't see a way to make a clean, extensible CSS text weight system without uncoupling
    it from usWeightClass.\r\n\r\n<em>Also, who/what made the decision that only relative
    use of this scale was initially desired/ possible?</em>\r\n\r\nIf you want absolute
    weights, then you can always reference a specific font in the CSS. It is in the
    use of relative weights that notions of lighter and bolder need to be related
    to individual members of a font family."
  created: '2011-08-14 01:07:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I was suggesting that they would need a new mechanism\r\n\r\nNonsense, but
    I will believe anything from the foot-draggers who require CSS to remain inferior,
    and to the confused rulers of W3C who seem typographically ambivalent to the future.
    \r\n\r\nPay close attention to the undeniable facts\r\n1. Apple ignores OS width
    and weight, clinging to antiquated sniffing of name? Where Regular, Normal, Roman,
    Standard, Medium and Book make this untenable, Apple\u2019s usual position is
    to wait for an integrate-enabled solution to solidify. No mess there if OS's Wt
    and OS width become better through use of a more complete set of values, and better
    used by developers. Repeat, No Mess, like font names will remain forever. \r\n\r\n2.
    MS\u2019s use of these values is broken in GDI? They fall further every day in
    market share, and the share using the GDI tail end falls faster than their market
    share. Besides which, using OS2 Width and weight to perform <em>effects!</em>
    is so far away from the true intended use of these parameters as to be in a totally
    different class of functionality. Again! No mess. \r\n\r\n3. FreeType\u2026 not
    used yet? No mess.\r\n\r\nWhat made/makes the use of these fraternal twin parameters
    critical a couple years ago, and in crisis mode today? This pair of parameters
    is flying into a storm of need where an increasing population of developers and
    web sites perform the composition of web pages on-the-fly for reactive and restive
    design situations. The former relates to sites that need to look descent on phones,
    tablets and desktops via media query. The latter is required to better guide and
    increasingly typo-un-savvy market of users. And backing it all up further into
    the typography, most visual identities are made from a small number of font families
    per ID. In such a situation the families need to have Wt and Wth metadata that
    allows them to interact in the making of good lookin\u2019 shit. \r\n\r\nComp-ren-do?"
  created: '2011-08-14 15:03:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yes, comprendo, and I don't disagree. I was just pointing out that what CSS
    specs re. weight class is a response to what that data looked like in existing
    fonts, what the OT spec says, and what different software makers were doing with
    that data. Yes, its a reactive solution, not a visionary one.
  created: '2011-08-14 19:55:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>\" I was just pointing out that what CSS specs re. weight class is a response
    to what that data looked like in existing fonts...\"\r\n\r\nAs <em> I was and
    am</em> saying .... Not all fonts, and not our fonts, have values so poorly defined.
    Me, I've  been under the false impression that the W3C do not even recognize OT
    as a STD, and are more interested in the right long term solution... Which is
    why I'm dumb founded at their/your short sighted approach to these key parameters!?"
  created: '2011-08-14 23:08:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I've been under the false impression that the W3C do not even
    recognize OT as a STD...</em>\r\n\r\nOh, they definitely do that (officially as
    the 'Open Font Format' under ISO, I suppose). There's also a lot of stuff in the
    CSS Fonts spec that ostensibly permits of other formats -- especially with regard
    to layout features, e.g. AAT and Graphite --, but OpenType is referred to throughout.
    Note also that CSS typography has been designed with an option to directly address
    low level OTL tags rather than higher level CSS syntax.\r\n\r\nDavid, do you have
    documented some place what you think it is important to be able to do with width
    and weight classes, and how you think this should be done? I think there are plenty
    of people in CSS who would be happy to engage with this issue."
  created: '2011-08-15 04:55:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...what you think it is important to be able to do with width and weight
    classes...\r\n\r\nIn light of the fact that we already have:\r\n\r\n font families
    where the total number of weights exceeds 11;)\r\n\r\n font users employing multiple
    font families where both weight and width of the combined styles = > 11, and need
    relative order of wt and wdth for intelligent composition\r\n\r\n and variation
    technology allowing indiscreet output of widths and weights from a single family
    master...\r\n\r\nWhat's to document? \r\n\r\n> ...they definitely do that [...]
    I suppose). \r\n\r\nLol at definite suppositions. W3C is schizophrenic on the
    issue of OFF/OT to the great peril for the future of several classes of web development
    and developers. \r\n\r\nSimply telling them to define these parameter with 1000,
    or 999 values, should be sufficient if their aim is progress. The more I know
    about the fonts WG, the less I believe in progress, the more I shun the waste
    of my truly precious time. "
  created: '2011-08-15 13:05:04'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "CSS font attributes are used as a font descriptor to match a given face in
    a font family or to substitute something similar when the specified family doesn't
    exist on a given platform.  This isn't a taxonomy scheme for font families, it's
    not an attempt to classify font families in their many different variations, it's
    a simple mechanism to deal with font selection and fallback.  Whatever weight
    values are used, there needs to be a way of matching those values with the values
    available in a given font family and they need to be consistent across families.
    \r\n\r\nThe key is that <strong>if</strong> usWeightClass worked as initially
    intended, it wouldn't be hard to extend CSS to make it support a range instead
    of just multiple's of 100's.  But as long as platform API vendors (e.g. Apple,
    Microsoft) view it as unreliable and instead try to infer the weight from the
    name, while Adobe puts in skewed weight values to avoid synthetic bolding in GDI,
    there isn't really a standard to base something on.\r\n\r\nConsider the weight
    values for the Helvetica Neue family:\r\n\r\n<pre>\r\n  Helvetica Neue on Mac
    OS X 10.6\r\n  100   UltraLight \r\n  300   Light \r\n  400   Regular \r\n  700
    \  Bold \r\n  900   Black (only condensed) \r\n  \r\n  Helvetica Neue LT Std in
    Adobe's Font Folio 11 \r\n  250   Thin \r\n  275   Ultra Light \r\n  300   Light
    \r\n  400   Roman \r\n  500   Medium \r\n  700   Bold \r\n  750   Heavy \r\n  900
    \  Black \r\n</pre>\r\n\r\nNote how the Thin and Ultra Light faces differ from
    each other and from what's described in the OpenType standard. Apple also uses
    a slightly different scale than the OpenType standard, UltraLight and Thin are
    in a [[http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Reference/ApplicationKit/Classes/NSFontManager_Class/Reference/Reference.html#//apple_ref/occ/instm/NSFontManager/convertWeight:ofFont:|different
    order]].\r\n\r\nThis is important because the OSX font API's sniff the style name
    and will assign a weight if they recognize a weight name in the style name.  Only
    if they can't recognize a weight name will they use the usWeightValue. \r\n\r\nFor
    the OpenType spec, the simplest solution I guess would be to add a flag to the
    fsSelection field similar to the USE_TYPO_METRICS flag, something like USE_OS2_WEIGHT_CLASS
    maybe, then evangelize folks at Apple, Microsoft, Adobe and at Google to use this
    in their platform font API's.  This flag would certify that the useWeightValues
    were in fact consistent with the relative scale defined by the OpenType spec and
    not skewed to hack around GDI-related problems on Windows.\r\n\r\nFor fonts loaded
    via @font-face rules, authors define what weight/width values are assigned to
    individual faces, there's no reference to any weight/width data in the font itself,
    only what is defined in the @font-face rules.  So unless an author is using more
    than 9 weights simultaneously, that's not much of a limitation currently.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-17 03:41:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John D: <em>For the OpenType spec, the simplest solution I guess would be
    to add a flag to the fsSelection field similar to the USE_TYPO_METRICS flag, something
    like USE_OS2_WEIGHT_CLASS maybe, then evangelize folks at Apple, Microsoft, Adobe
    and at Google to use this in their platform font API's. This flag would certify
    that the useWeightValues were in fact consistent with the relative scale defined
    by the OpenType spec and not skewed to hack around GDI-related problems on Windows.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    the same mechanism I sketched out today. The problem for usWeightClass is very
    similar to that of the OS/2 usWinAscent and usWinDescent metrics, which were implemented
    in almost all software in a way that was contrary to their original intention
    and specification, so a similar solution seems likely. Of course, there would
    still be problems in the selection and rendering of correct fonts in systems that
    were not updated to accept the new mechanism, and which would treat the fonts
    according to past practice, i.e. ignoring usWeightClass or faux bolding certain
    weights.\r\n\r\n_____\r\n\r\nAside:\r\n\r\nDavid: <em>The more I know about the
    fonts WG...</em>\r\n\r\nTo clarify, there is no 'fonts WG'. The W3C has a Webfonts
    working group, which is responsible for defining formats and comformance requirements
    for served fonts, and a very much larger CSS working group, which is responsible
    for a massive amount of stuff, one part of which is 'CSS Fonts', which would be
    more accurately labelled CSS Typography."
  created: '2011-08-17 04:53:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Johns, the issues surrounding these parameters are not what font WG means
    (silly drover) how the OS show divergent interests in contradiction to an open
    publishing platform, or even how you think the parameters will be used. The issue
    is whether CSS will be able to offer  these parameters for use in their currently
    hobbled conditions, vs how they could be more useful as they were originally intended.\r\n\r\nIf
    you need an existing example, parallel to the interpretation if these parameters,
    the interpretation of hints should suffice... Exactly. :)"
  created: '2011-08-17 06:25:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>The issue is whether CSS will be able to offer these parameters
    for use in their currently hobbled conditions, vs how they could be more useful
    as they were originally intended.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd you have your answer from both
    John Daggett and from me: CSS can use usWeightClass more usefully, as originally
    intended, only if there is a mechanism that can be used to tell platform APIs
    -- on which CSS user agents (browsers) rely -- that they should trust and treat
    the font's usWeightClass as originally intended, instead of treating them as they
    currently do. None of those API makers are going to break backwards compatibility
    for how they currently do things with existing fonts, which means that a different
    behaviour has to rely on a switch in the font itself, e.g. a new fsSelection bit
    flag."
  created: '2011-08-17 17:35:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: It stays broken your ways. My way has nothing to lose following the STD!
  created: '2011-08-17 18:18:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Johns (D and H):\r\n\r\nI hate to say it, but since AFAIK many GDI apps even
    on Windows 7 are still broken in handling usWeightClass, it seems to me that sane
    font vendors are not likely to use usWeightClass values less than 250. It's not
    only Adobe who does such odd things in this regard.\r\n\r\nJust as the only way
    to get around awful legacy metrics and awful legacy names was to invent new ones,
    while keeping the old ones for backwards compatibility, it seems to me like we
    need a new \"weightclass and this time we really mean it!\" entry in the OS/2
    table if we want to get out of this.\r\n\r\nThere could be some advantages to
    doing this, such as explicitly allowing values in between the 100's, and explicitly
    going as low as zero and as high as 1000. That would among other things accommodate
    families that don't fit into the Procrustean bed of 9 values from 100 to 900,
    with three weights below \"regular\" and five above.\r\n\r\nI probably ought to
    propose this on the OFF and/or OpenType lists.\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-17 18:50:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thomas, a whole new data set was my original notion (see above), but then
    I started thinking if there might be a way, using a flag mechanism, to preserve
    the existing data structure. I see your point, though, about the benefits of a
    clean set of data, which would enable fonts to remain backwards compatible with
    their GDI behaviour while providing new weight information that CSS and new APIs
    could access instead of usWeightClass. And, of course, defining the new data as
    a range 0-999 rather than multiples of 100.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nDavid: <em>My way
    has nothing to lose following the STD!</em>\r\n\r\nPresuming STD=standard (rather
    than sexually transmitted disease), <em>what standard?</em> The OpenType/OFF spec
    explicitly limits the correct setting of usWeightClass to one of nine multiples
    of 100.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/os2.htm#wtc\r\n\r\nSo
    that standard clearly doesn't address your requirements for 'font families where
    the total number of weights exceeds 11'.\r\n\r\nAnd if, following that standard,
    you set the usWeightClass value of any of your fonts as 100 or 200, they may end
    up displaying as heavier than a font with a value of 300 in GDI.\r\n\r\nAnd if
    the range of weights in the family don't correspond exactly with the stated weights
    of the spec, Apple is going to select incorrect weights based on font name.\r\n\r\nSo
    I don't see an existing standard that you <em>can</em> follow, unless your family
    has seven or fewer weights and these correspond precisely to \r\n\r\n<pre>\r\n300
    \tLight\r\n400 \tNormal (Regular)\r\n500 \tMedium\r\n600 \tSemi-bold (Demi-bold)\r\n700
    \tBold\r\n800 \tExtra-bold (Ultra-bold)\r\n900 \tBlack (Heavy)\r\n</pre>"
  created: '2011-08-17 21:45:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John Hudson wrote: \"The OpenType/OFF spec explicitly limits the correct
    setting of usWeightClass to one of nine multiples of 100.\"\r\n\r\nHmmm. That's
    not how I read it. There's a comment that these nine values have specific meanings,
    but no guidance one way or another about the (il)legitimacy of other values....
    Plus if only those values were legal, why even have usWeightClass on a 100-900
    scale instead of the 1-9 scale that usWidthClass is on?\r\n\r\nBut otherwise,
    yeah, I think we are ~ in agreement.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-08-18 22:58:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thomas, I guess we can agree that the usWeightClass spec is thoroughly ambiguous
    about the legitimacy of values other than multiple of 100 and offers no information
    at all about how these should be implemented or interpreted. No wonder software
    makers have judged the data to be unreliable and no standard implementation has
    been possible.\r\n\r\nYes, one possible interpretation of usWeightClass being
    on a 100-900 scale instead of 1-9 is that intermediate values are permitted, but
    it is just as feasible that it was defined this way to be future proofed against
    the definition of additional standard weights.\r\n\r\nThere's nothing in the spec,
    by the way, to suggest that GDI's synthetic bold of usWeightClass <250 is not,
    in fact, a legitimate use of this data, even though we consider the results in
    many cases to be 'broken'.\r\n\r\nOf course, we know that the OT format spec in
    general is very short on implementation guidance."
  created: '2011-08-18 23:15:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Well? \r\nif typography is 75-90% of all web content, \r\nand the font formats
    of the web are sketchy, \r\nthen the majority of web content is unready for the
    next big thing(s). \r\nSo what's the problem?\r\nThe worst idea I can imagine
    is starting over with a new mechanism, which a caveperson could fig'ger that out
    in ten seconds if (s)he could time travel, \"ugga bugga.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-19 14:06:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So what's the problem?</em>\r\n\r\nThe problem has been explained above
    by several people. In a nutshell, as John D put it, there is no standard re. usWeightClass
    on which CSS can base an extensible recommendation of the kind we need to handle
    fonts with other than nine specific weights. The OT spec is underwritten and ambiguous,
    and existing software on which Web browsers rely handles usWeightClass data in
    inconsistent and incompatible ways.\r\n\r\nSo, you can have either the status
    quo or you can have something new. Even if the something new were not new font
    data, it would still require new APIs to be able to handle the new interpretation
    of usWeightClass (and in the process break backwards compatibility, which most
    software makers will balk at)."
  created: '2011-08-19 17:38:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Excellent summary, thanks. \r\n\r\nThe one detail you are glossing over is
    that \"most software makers\" = Microsoft. "
  created: '2011-08-20 12:30:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The one detail you are glossing over is that \"most software makers\"
    = Microsoft.</em>\r\n\r\nI think any software maker whose current handling of
    usWeightClass would produce different results from a new handling would be concerned
    about backwards compatibility issues, and that is as true for those who currently
    ignore usWeightClass as for those who perform specific functions with it. So,
    for example, if fallback font selection is currently based on parsing font names
    rather than on usWeightClass, shifting to using usWeightClass data will result
    in different fonts being selected in some situations (cf. John D's comparison
    of two different cuts of Helvetica and their incompatible name and weight class
    data).\r\n\r\nI don't think anyone has looked yet at all the existing dependencies,
    or polled the various interested parties to find out just how seriously they take
    the backwards compatibility issues. I wouldn't like to guess."
  created: '2011-08-20 20:36:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'When you get over your apparent fixation for pimping typographic chaos via
    industrial stagnation, please do let us all know so we little people can gather
    at the base of the mountain and receive your blessed solution. '
  created: '2011-08-20 21:34:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: David, that is very unfair.
  created: '2011-08-20 23:18:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Really? Is an inept 17 year rollout of web typography unfair enough to balance
    it all out for ya? You are not paying for this chaos so I'm going to ignore you
    now. Sorry...
  created: '2011-08-21 10:35:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, you have my sympathies.\r\nYou should be designing typefaces, not
    battling Microsoft's ongoing legacy of technical impediments in screen display
    and font naming.\r\nOr is that what passes for type design these days?"
  created: '2011-08-21 18:08:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: So what's <em>your</em> solution, David? You express an aversion to any new
    mechanisms, data types or formats, even when the existing mechanisms etc. are
    underdefined for Web purposes and have legacy implementation problems that already
    affect browsers and cross-platform compatibility. So how you you propose to create
    serenity from the chaos? This is a serious question. I want to know what you think
    should be done and how it will work.
  created: '2011-08-21 19:43:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: PS. What I thought unfair was your characterisation of <em>me</em>. I'm not
    delivering mountain top solutions -- you are the one suggesting that everyone
    except you lacks vision --, I'm trying to work with other people to understand
    problems and examine solutions. At every stage of which I'm also struggling to
    understand what you are getting at, which is never easy and usually results in
    my being insulted, again. Very tired of that.
  created: '2011-08-21 19:56:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "NS>You should be designing typefaces\r\n\r\nOver the last month, I have been
    shoving more type problems in my face just to keep it out of this morass. Thanks
    for the encouragement nontheless. \r\n\r\n\r\nJH> You express an aversion to any
    new mechanisms, data types or formats\r\n\r\nYou would have to show me where I
    say anything of the sort. Underdefinement is my enemy and something I have yet
    to provide. The solution here is to shove the parameters in question straight
    up the W3Cs standards stack and let them be properly filled by an ever increasing
    roster of well behaved fonts. If I gave any other impression, or wrongly insulted
    you, I am very sorry for that, but it seems like I'm talking to one brick in the
    wall after another, which I am very tired of as well. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-21 21:53:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>The solution here is to shove the parameters in question straight
    up the W3Cs standards stack and let them be properly filled by an ever increasing
    roster of well behaved fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich is roughly what Tom and I are
    suggesting, except that we think the parameters in question need to be a new data
    structure independent of usWeightClass because the latter is pretty hopelessly
    broken in places that, unfortunately, are going to continue to have an impact
    on Web text rendering. Or, put it another way, there is no clear definition of
    what constitutes 'well behaved fonts' with reference to usWeightClass, since the
    data set and its uses are themselves underdefined.\r\n\r\nIf everyone were willing
    to dismiss backwards compatibility issues per se, and usWeightClass was better
    defined so that, moving forwards, standards for implementation could be specified,
    we'd still have to deal with existing font data in some way. Hence John Daggett's
    suggestion that some kind of flag mechanism would be needed to indicate the validity
    of the usWeightClass data according to the new, clean definition.\r\n\r\nRegardless
    of whether a new data structure or a flag indicating particular use of the existing
    data structure is employed, new APIs are going to be needed to know what to do
    with it. So, that being the case, I'm inclined to agree with Tom's suggestion
    of a new data structure because it provides for the possibility of making fonts
    that would be compatible with both new APIs and the old usWeightClass interpretation/ignoring.
    The flag mechanism would only be compatible with the new APIs, and fonts with
    that data would break in various ways under the old system (synthetic bolding
    in a lot of versions of IE; different fonts being selected on different platforms)."
  created: '2011-08-22 22:13:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">need to be a new data structure independent of usWeightClass because the
    latter is pretty hopelessly broken in places that, unfortunately, are going to
    continue to have an impact on Web text rendering.\r\n\r\nThey are No More Broken
    than hints ever were (a total parallel imho), and look how that is shaping up.
    \r\n\r\n>some kind of flag mechanism would be needed to indicate the validity
    of the usWeightClass\r\n\r\nNot as bad as a new structure, but... in the broken
    world of hints, the repair was foundry support for quality guides to the fonts,
    and! proof on the web of which fonts are and are not following the spec. No new
    APIs, just publicly scrutinizable fonts. That, I believe is the only solution
    to the pollution, and one that fits well with W3C's mission to make what's common
    \u2014 standard.\r\n\r\nAll the best from Dr. Jekyl"
  created: '2011-08-23 13:01:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It seems that at least for the user and developer, it should be a simple matter
    rather than this craziness.  A simple numeric progression seems achievable.
  created: '2011-08-23 15:28:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>A simple numeric progression seems achievable.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's
    go back to John Daggett's helpful summary of the purpose of weight class vis \xE0
    vis CSS:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>CSS font attributes are used as a font descriptor
    to match a given face in a font family or to substitute something similar when
    the specified family doesn't exist on a given platform. This isn't a taxonomy
    scheme for font families, it's not an attempt to classify font families in their
    many different variations, it's a simple mechanism to deal with font selection
    and fallback. Whatever weight values are used, there needs to be a way of matching
    those values with the values available in a given font family and they need to
    be consistent across families.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n[See the last paragraph of
    John's post for an explanation of why weight class isn't an issue for @font-face
    served fonts.]\r\n\r\nSo we need two things: 1) a clear definition of the acceptable
    range of values, and 2) consistent application across font families. It should
    be the case that two fonts with a usWeightClass value of 300 are pretty close
    to each other in weight, even if the fonts come from different vendors. This is
    where David's 'well behaved fonts' come in. At present there is no standard that
    defines the data in a way that can guarantee such consistency.\r\n\r\nI think
    the creators of Panose understood something fundamental about font selection and
    fallback that most other people have missed: matching fonts needs to be based
    on <em>measurement</em> not on subjective and variable notions of 'Ultra-Light'
    'Medium' 'Semibold' 'Heavy' etc. It isn't enough to know that two fonts are both
    called 'Medium' or that both have usWeightClass values of 500 if one is appreciably
    heavier than the other and if one family's 'Semibold' font (usWeightClass = 600)
    is actually closer in weight to the 'Medium' in the other family. That is not
    going to help what David so excellently described as 'making of good lookin\u2019
    shit.'\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the only really sound way to use weight class
    data to indicate true weight (whether usWeightClass or some new data structure)
    is to link the data to a key stem weight relative to some standard value (which
    could be proportional, e.g. capheight, or fixed, e.g. em square. [This gets complicated
    because the system needs to be extensible to non-Latin types (which also means
    the the key stem might be horizontal in some scripts rather than vertical), and
    should be able to interact with other CSS fallback mechanisms, especially font-size-adjust.]"
  created: '2011-08-23 18:37:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>They are No More Broken than hints ever were (a total parallel
    imho), and look how that is shaping up. </em>\r\n\r\nI think it is a partial parallel.
    The problem of different platforms interpreting/ignoring hint data in different
    ways is that the same font renders differently in different places. One problem
    of different platforms interpreting/ignoring usWeightClass in different ways is
    that you can end up with <em>different fonts</em> in different places.\r\n\r\nThe
    hinting problem can be addressed by taking steps to equalise <em>quality</em>
    of rendering at the design level, i.e. compensating for the variable interpretation
    of hint data by targeting outlines to grids at select size ranges. The usWeightClass
    problem has to be addressed at the data level.\r\n\r\nThe hinting problem can
    be addressed in such a way that the same font looks good and is readable on multiple
    platforms (the renderings remain different, but the quality of the renderings
    is brought closer to each other). The usWeightClass problem, currently, can't
    be addressed in a way that will produce the same or even qualitatively equivalent
    results in different places; the only way to stick with the existing data structure
    and not require new APIs is to declare that you don't care about some of those
    places.\r\n___\r\n\r\nPS. I like Dr Jekyl."
  created: '2011-08-23 18:52:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Let's go back to John Daggett's helpful summary of the purpose of weight
    class vis \xE0 vis CSS:\r\n\r\nLet's not. It shows a distinct lack of imagination
    and envisioning of the future. It also disregards the approximately 37.5 billion
    possible combinations of glyph, font, typeface, user, device and poodle."
  created: '2011-08-24 17:17:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hold horses for a minute, and survey the view from this ridge.\r\n\r\nThere
    appear to be some people on the plain below talking about what CSS actually does
    with a particular set of font data and how to ensure that it can be done reliably
    in a way that doesn't restrict font families to a very limited number of members.
    But there also appears to be a lone ranger galloping away into the distance, who
    is talking about completely overhauling CSS font handling in imaginative and visionary
    ways to do things other than what it currently and actually does.\r\n\r\nI consider
    both of these to be entirely valid and important conversations. But let's be clear
    that they are two different conversations."
  created: '2011-08-24 18:16:38'
date: '2011-08-12 19:56:04'
title: usWeightClass values

---
