---
author:
  name: Thomas Phinney
  picture: 128358
body: "Article I did for Communication Arts, full text available at their site online:\r\nhttp://www.commarts.com/columns/how-explain-typography.html\r\n\r\nComments
  welcome!"
comments:
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: 'Thanks Thomas. Well done. '
  created: '2011-08-19 01:25:25'
- author:
    name: CanwllCorfe
    picture: 122162
  body: Fantastic article! Very enjoyable read.
  created: '2011-08-19 02:10:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm concerned about two things about that article.\r\n\r\nOne is that to
    many people, old-style figures look so strange and peculiar, that if you bring
    them up to people who doubt that good typography is important, you will end up
    being dismissed.\r\n\r\nThe other is that the other differences in the example
    you showed were much too subtle to make an impression on the general person -
    and while the article itself is written for an audience of typographers, it's
    about how to make themselves clear to non-typographers.\r\n\r\nTo convince a layperson
    that typography matters, you need to do so in a simple manner that even the layperson
    can immediately grasp.\r\n\r\nThus, what I would suggest as a basis for comparison
    would be a page set in a modern typeface... of the thin and anemic kind favored
    in the late nineteenth century. Compare that with an example of readable fine
    typography, and you will begin to make the case that typography can matter, at
    least to a limited extent in extreme cases. That will be a start."
  created: '2011-08-19 03:22:07'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "<em>[...] To many people, old-style figures look so strange and peculiar,
    that if you bring them up to people who doubt that good typography is important,
    you will end up being dismissed.</em>\r\n\r\nGood typography means to forget of
    old-style figures, when needed."
  created: '2011-08-19 10:23:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Nice stuff Thomas.\r\n\r\nNow the next important question, Why does Communication
    Arts matter?"
  created: '2011-08-19 12:58:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Now the next important question, Why does Communication Arts matter?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause
    there are still art directors who don't read blogs."
  created: '2011-08-19 14:12:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"The other is that the other differences in the example you showed were
    much too subtle to make an impression on the general person.\"\r\n\r\nNot consciously,
    but they had a measurable effect nonetheless. Which was rather the point. Plus,
    in a casual conversation you won't be showing that example, you'll just be citing
    the fact that there is actual research to back up your position that typography
    affects people (whether or not they are consciously aware of it).\r\n\r\nPlus,
    I've found the analogies to things like furniture, fashion and film (my \"three
    F's\") to be pretty successful in communicating to people utterly outside the
    graphic design realm.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-08-19 17:42:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think \"before and after\" graphics are some of the most effective. \r\n\r\nHere's
    one that I particularly like, just two sheets of letter sized paper, but what
    a difference! http://www.swiss-miss.com/2011/03/chris-glass-and-his-barber.html\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-19 18:26:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As a type designer, I don't have to explain Why Typography Matters, but How
    Is it Possible to Make a Living Doing That?!\r\n\r\nI explain that everyone with
    Word is now a typographer, and that despite bundling the number of font users
    (such as themselves) is so huge that the small segment of users (professional
    and otherwise) who would pay to licence something different is nonetheless large
    enough to support a digital font industry with hundreds of foundries producing
    new fonts, every day.\r\n\r\nThe next question is along the lines of How Do You
    Make it Different? \u2014and that get us into Thomas' Three Fs, but I also like
    to discuss how the diversity of typographic form (even within a single writing
    system) makes sense from both a formalist and a structuralist perspective. \r\n\r\nIn
    other words, if you consider type shapes purely formally, there is an almost infinite
    number of ways a legible alphabet may be shaped.\r\nAnd if you consider type forms
    as representing meanings within the culture in which they occurred, then because
    cultures are ever-changing, then so too must type forms be ever-changing.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-19 18:55:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>One is that to many people, old-style figures look so strange and peculiar,
    that if you bring them up to people who doubt that good typography is important,
    you will end up being dismissed.</em>\r\n\r\nYears ago, I was typesetting an educational
    document, and pointed out to the author the fi etc. ligatures that the font I
    had used provided (in an expert set). She was most put out, and said she thought
    that they looked weird and would distract readers. I pointed to the novel that
    she was halfway through reading, lying nearby, and asked her to look in it for
    words containing fi fl ffi or ffl. She did so and was amazed to find that the
    book was full of those distracting ligatures. That evening she phoned me from
    her home to exclaim 'All my books have them!'.\r\n\r\nBooks are (mostly) your
    allies. They represent several hundred years of typographic practice and refinement,
    and can be used to demonstrate the norms of typographic communication. Even oldstyle
    figures."
  created: '2011-08-20 02:33:19'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Nice job, Thomas. \r\nI've been spending the last year in my masters of ed
    in arts & learning program exploring the communicative aspects of glyphs. Several
    of my research projects involve students creating then assessing typographic or
    lettering pieces on what they perceive in terms of message, emotion, association
    of imagery or concept, etc.\r\n\r\nThe projects use non-latin alphabets, illegible
    handlettering, and/or obscure languages in order to remove the \"reading of words\".
    In other words, the pure communicative power of letters/glyphs themselves.\r\n\r\nMany
    of the students were astounded how much they could communicate without \"words\"
    and as a result, many pay far closer attention to the minutia and subtleties of
    typography.\r\n\r\nNow if we can only get the designers and creatives to \"see\"
    as opposed to \"read\"."
  created: '2011-08-20 03:02:49'
- author:
    name: sydneynewsom
    picture: 123057
  body: "I concur, nice article!\r\n\r\nNorbert, In response to your post above: I
    very much associate emotions and vibes from fonts. Especially when they are representative
    of a company, movement, campaign, etc. \r\n\r\nIronically, I just published my
    first post here on typophile (http://typophile.com/node/84735) which speaks directly
    to the emotions involved with a certain font in particular. Sometimes I think
    there is a deeper meaning to the word \"family\" within \"font family\". After
    a certain amount of time spent together, experimenting and learning, I find it
    is easy to become emotionally attached to a font. Fonts are about as reliable
    as it gets. And predictable."
  created: '2011-08-20 05:06:02'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thomas, is your definition of what is Typography that of Dictionary dot com?\r\n\r\nhttp://dictionary.reference.com/browse/typography"
  created: '2011-08-20 06:04:30'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Typography is jo one of the ways to tell who is the champ... and who is the
    chump.
  created: '2011-08-20 16:33:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Because there are still art directors who don't read blogs.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    actually surprised that something as interesting and current as Thomas' article
    was published in CA.\r\n\r\nWhat was once a venerable design publication has become
    a collection of regional \"best of\" stuff.\r\n\r\nI can't remember meeting an
    art director in the last 10 years who admitted to reading CA. Print, yes, Eye,
    yes. CA?"
  created: '2011-08-20 17:25:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What was once a venerable design publication has become a collection
    of regional \"best of\" stuff.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that some designers keep
    CA around just for that reason. It has replaced hardbound annual directories of
    photographers, illustrators, and freelancers with a less expensive (by subscription)
    and, more importantly, curated option. Perhaps the reason nobody admits to reading
    it is that, aside from Thomas' columns (the only articles in CA I have read since
    2008), there is absolutely nothing in CA worth reading. But if one needs a directory
    of high-end, independent stock photography, the CA photography annual is a steal."
  created: '2011-08-20 18:31:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great Read, Thomas!  \r\nand welcome back, Norbert!!!"
  created: '2011-08-20 19:49:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>Years ago, I was typesetting an educational document,
    and pointed out to the author the fi etc. ligatures that the font I had used provided
    (in an expert set). She was most put out, and said she thought that they looked
    weird and would distract readers. I pointed to the novel that she was halfway
    through reading, lying nearby, and asked her to look in it for words containing
    fi fl ffi or ffl. She did so and was amazed to find that the book was full of
    those distracting ligatures. That evening she phoned me from her home to exclaim
    'All my books have them!'.</cite>\r\n\r\nGreat story! That does indeed illustrate
    the power of books to show the value of things people don't normally notice.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure, though, that old-style figures are similarly invisible, or that they're
    as common. I'm not saying they're \"bad\", just that they would be more likely
    to be off-putting, and this would be harder to prove with a counterexample, than
    your case of ligatures. My intent isn't to criticize the typographer who wrote
    the article as far as his knowledge of typography was concerned, but simply to
    remind people of how the world looks to the typographically na\xEFve.\r\n\r\n@Norbert
    Florendo:\r\n<cite>The projects use non-latin alphabets, illegible handlettering,
    and/or obscure languages in order to remove the \"reading of words\". In other
    words, the pure communicative power of letters/glyphs themselves.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Many
    of the students were astounded how much they could communicate without \"words\"
    and as a result, many pay far closer attention to the minutia and subtleties of
    typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is, of course, fascinating and wonderful.\r\n\r\nBut
    I could not help but think of Beatrice Warde turning over in her grave..."
  created: '2011-08-20 20:02:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Typography is not just about using what used to be only in expert sets.  It
    is about using whatever you use well and knowing when you should not use a certain
    technique. Sometimes, adhering to established style recommendations goes against
    the grain of the subject matter.  That is when a good typographer outshines a
    mere rule-regurgitator
  created: '2011-08-20 20:04:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But I could not help but think of Beatrice Warde turning over in her grave...\"\r\n\r\nHer
    time here on Earth was well spent but is now over.  She did quite well with the
    issues of her day. It is now time for us to make a good run at the things we face
    now, not just what she faced then.\r\n\r\nProbably, Euclid is also turning over
    in is grave but at least his angle of rotation is predictable ;-)"
  created: '2011-08-20 20:12:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Thomas, is your definition of what is Typography that of Dictionary dot
    com?\"\r\n\r\nI would go with just the first half of their second definition,
    with some contribution from the third, but sure, close enough. (All three reproduced
    below for reference.)\r\n\r\n1. the art or process of printing with type.\r\n2.
    the work of setting and arranging types and of printing from them.\r\n3. the general
    character or appearance of printed matter.\r\n\r\n(Based on the Random House Dictionary,
    \xA9 Random House, Inc. 2011. )"
  created: '2011-08-20 22:52:57'
- author:
    name: manuelzavala
    picture: 114799
  body: "First, nice article, Thomas!\r\n\r\nNon-designers typically get in arguments
    about form without considering function (like in the ligatures example that John
    Hudson mentioned), and to me that's the reason why typography is so important
    and relevant for designers. \r\n\r\nTypography is the study of typefaces and their
    relationship with design and communication. Typography, to be effective, must
    be the last thing the audience has to worry about about. The typefaces can be
    noticeable, legible, and possibly meaningful, however, they cannot be something
    too complex to decipher.\r\n\r\nThere's a wonderful book by Jan Tschichold called
    \"The Form of the Book\", it deals with many aspects that are relevant to designers
    regarding legibility, typefaces, etc., but from the editorial design perspective.
    I've found the principles in that book to be applicable to today's digital design
    (web, apps, etc.). I highly recommend it :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n- Manuel\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-21 07:56:47'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>Probably, Euclid is also turning over in is grave but at least his angle
    of rotation is predictable ;-)</em>\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nWilliam, I\u2019m not sure
    it\u2019s as simple as the example you cite. Though it\u2019s certainly a stunning
    transition, is it a good one or even a necessary one? Was the barber doing badly
    before the sign change? Is he doing better now? Have the clientele changed? Have
    prices gone up? Are previous customers excluded? Perhaps proto capitalism is better
    than advanced capitalism! \r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure it is a matter of just tidying
    the world up. Or is it? I just spent the day reading <em>Otl Aicher</em> by Markus
    Rathgeb\u2026 perhaps that is influencing my crisis. There was a line in it, which
    I can't find now, suggesting that good design inspires confidence in a business
    - the customer supposedly relates a neater sign to a better haircut - but when
    I see the first sign I see honesty, when I see the second, improved sign, I am
    perhaps a little skeptical - why does the barber need to promote haircuts with
    design? Do the haircuts not promote themselves? Any barber can hire a designer,*
    but not all barbers can cut hair! I am questioning the first principle of design,
    that it actually improves things, and not just superficially. Does a graphic treatment
    still inspire confidence in a business? Or is that concept only powerful at the
    onset of a graphic design cold war \u2026 as opposed to a world where almost all
    businesses have accumulated a \u201Cgraphic arsenal\u201D. There is something
    about the original that cuts through all of that. It is what it is \u2026 it\u2019s
    humorous, natural, temporary, psychogeographical\u2026\r\n\r\nIs typography important
    because we like it? To say all of the above is to play devil\u2019s advocate,
    humour me.\r\n\r\n* In this scenario, it seems the designer traded his services
    for the haircut, which I admire, bartering is good."
  created: '2011-08-21 21:08:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The customer may expect a business to have a professionally groomed appearance,
    indicating that the services offered are professionally competent. \r\nThat may
    include the graphic equivalent of the bed-head look (faux-natural, faux vernacular,
    &c.) which complicates matters.\r\nBut it's the graphic designer's job to know
    what the current semiotics are, and manipulate the signs accordingly."
  created: '2011-08-21 21:15:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William, I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s as simple as the example you cite.
    \r\n\r\nWhat do you mean by \"it?\" The point of my example is that \"before\"
    and \"after\" pictures are a good tool to communicate the difference between poor
    and good design. \r\n\r\nI wasn't arguing that well designed signs are by themselves
    going to make a business succeed or fail. Good visual appearance and communication
    are just one aspect. The question of the role of design in persuasion and business
    success are complex ones, and I wasn't addressing that. \r\n\r\nI think the average
    person would say that, other things being equal, if they needed a hair cut, they
    would more likely walk into the shop with the \"after\" sign than the \"before\"
    sign. That's all. Also, the \"after\" sign is a lot more attractive, which is
    a social good in itself, if you like beauty over ugliness.\r\n\r\nAs Thomas quoted
    James Pluckett saying in the article, Apple is the best contemporary argument
    that good design as part of a good business can be a benefit.  \r\n\r\nI think
    that questions of the choice of typeface and refinements like small caps are secondary
    to the general question of good graphic design. Once you accept that good graphic
    design is a benefit, and can see that some is better than others, then I think
    you're ready to see the benefits of a good choice of type and refined setting.
    I doubt that a person who fails to \"get it\" about graphic design in general
    is going to be convinced about the need for good typography.\r\n\r\nThat is why
    for a general audience\u2014perhaps not necessary for this magazine\u2014I would
    start with the barber shop, and go on from there. I don't know how large the illustration
    is in Thomas's article, but I think you only see the \"point\" of old style figures
    when you can seem them clearly in running text. I think the thing about good typography
    that is hard to grasp until you get into it is that while a refinement like old
    style figures is a small matter, refined typography is an accumulation of small
    matters. When you get them all right, the result is very agreeable, even if any
    one of them is not such a big deal. \r\n   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-21 21:47:48'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "It being the \u201Cimportance\u201D of typography. Apologies if I mistook
    your post, I agree there is a very visible difference between the before and after
    shots, which might help open the article but we are talking in quite bold terms
    now; beauty vs ugliness? Who decides? Who is the arbiter of the street image?
    It\u2019s a bit of a dangerous game, IMHO. Nick\u2019s relativism is more convincing.
    It is perhaps easier to be objective about book typography.\r\n\r\n<em>That may
    include the graphic equivalent of the bed-head look (faux-natural, faux vernacular,
    &c.) which complicates matters.</em>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s the faux that worries me,
    that is why I described the first sign as honest if nothing else. The second sign
    is infinitely more complex to \u201Cread\u201D, despite the typographic clarity."
  created: '2011-08-21 22:22:09'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: The discussion of what is gained or lost with the barber sign change is evidence
    enough that something significant is different.  This would be my definition of
    'matters' in any case.
  created: '2011-08-21 23:39:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The truth is \"What does it say?\" is what matters.  I don't mean just the
    words written there.  If you are going to a barber who,you would like to think
    they are reputable, clean, and have a valid license. The hand scrawled note says
    \"probably not\" no matter what the words say.\r\nA hand written sign about a
    yard sale tells a different story.  It says: \"this is from my neighbor\" rather
    than \"sales pitch\" if it were slick and had drop shadows.\r\n\r\nPS: @1985;
    \ I was the one who wrote the \"Euclid grave\" reference, not Bill. I don't understand
    why you quoted it without a response?"
  created: '2011-08-22 02:16:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick is right, of course, that sometimes looking too polished is bad for
    business, particularly if you are trying to communicate that you are bargain basement
    prices for the masses. But I do think that this not the general rule. It''s just
    that because effective communication is paramount, and in some cases that conflicts
    with attractive and readable typography. The point is that there is such a thing
    as attractive as readable typography, and that in general it''s a plus. '
  created: '2011-08-22 03:56:58'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>PS: @1985; I was the one who wrote the \"Euclid grave\" reference, not
    Bill. I don't understand why you quoted it without a response?</em>\r\n\r\nI know,
    Dez, it was funny - my response was <strong>:-)</strong> right there below the
    quote itself!\r\nThen I went on to address William. Don't worry man, full credit
    to you!\r\n\r\nAll I meant to say was that there is not a simple scale with good
    typography at one end and bad typography at the other, with every typographic
    entity waiting to be positioned according to a subjective idea of what is good
    and bad. You could begin this process, and chances are you would start filling
    up the scale with examples, but the next man\u2019s scale would say something
    else, and would be created according to different esteemed values, so on, so forth.
    There may be some common ground; good kerning, technical ideas etc., but when
    it comes to appropriateness of overall design that requires a much more complicated
    system to cope with the myriad responses. So, William, I would say there is probably
    such a thing as readable typography (objective, can be tested) but <em>attractive</em>
    typography is subjective, the latter is something you insist on rather than something
    you can prove."
  created: '2011-08-22 11:07:49'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>The truth is \"What does it say?\" is what matters. I don't mean just
    the words written there. If you are going to a barber who,you would like to think
    they are reputable, clean, and have a valid license. The hand scrawled note says
    \"probably not\" no matter what the words say.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, what about British
    Petroleum, for example? Who believes they are reputable, clean and have validity?
    They have a very polished graphic appearance after all. It\u2019s an extreme example
    (I apologise in advance), but the contrast of neat corporate image and dire corporate
    behaviour has to shake faith in the currency of design, in the value of those
    values, if you will. My initial point regarding the clean up of the barber\u2019s
    sign was that it no longer suggested to me \u201Cgood haircut\u201D, just \u201Cneat,
    familiar, well practised sign\u201D, which actually made it harder to \u201Cread\u201D
    in some respects. Conversely the \u201Chand scrawled\u201D sign did not necessarily
    make me think \u201Cbad haricut\u201D, rather \u201Ckooky, hand made sign, might
    have an interesting chat with the barber here, a suitably local price, and a haircut
    un-phased by current fashion\u201D. Try getting a designer to communicate those
    sentiments \u2026 they probably can\u2019t, especially not with well spaced Futura
    etc., etc.\r\n\r\nAs a designer, I probably have a heightened sensibility to this
    crisis, but I hope you see my point. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s not clear cut, excuse the
    pun!"
  created: '2011-08-22 11:38:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "British Petroleum is an old multi-billion dollar corporation that has a very
    long standing in the business world. Having a polished graphic presentation is
    not only expected but required. There has been a long history of unethical activity
    among wealthy corporations combined with slick marketing spin. The difference
    between them and a small neighborhood barber shop is huge.  Hand-written notes
    have a different appeal depending on source and audience.  We treasure handwritten
    letters from family members.  We expect a certain business decorum from large
    corporations but do not always trust that they are honest.  Crooks and slime-balls
    know how to do smoke and mirrors.  \r\nA handwritten grease-pen scrawl on butcher
    paper covering a fresh leg of lamb from our neighborhood butcher shop means \"fresh
    and cared for\" where a plastic boxed leg of lamb with barcoded label means \"nothing
    special\" from Safeway or any other major grocery chain."
  created: '2011-08-22 17:27:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the sophisticated analysis here only sharpens the general point that
    refined, beautiful typography can be a great benefit. That its suitability depends
    on the situation only makes more clear what its value is.\r\n\r\nWith regard to
    Chris's latest point that hand written notes are sometimes best: I was really
    struck when visiting China how often shops put up hand written signs, and how
    consistently they looked good to great. That's because of a strong tradition of
    everyone being trained in hand written brush work. I hope that doesn't disappear
    because of the computer!\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-08-22 18:59:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@William Berkson:\r\n<cite>That's because of a strong tradition of everyone
    being trained in hand written brush work. I hope that doesn't disappear because
    of the computer!</cite>I'm afraid to agree with you because I feel that might
    be selfish of me.\r\n\r\nNever mind the computer; <em>script reform</em> should
    cause that to disappear.\r\n\r\nThe reason it isn't impossible for the Chinese
    people to learn to read is because they really only need to memorize a few hundred
    basic components of characters, with meanings like \"man\" and \"heart\" and \"speech\".\r\n\r\nThese
    are combined by meaning to produce a few hundred more characters, such as \"bright\",
    formed from \"sun\" and \"moon\".\r\n\r\nOnce those characters are learned, to
    someone who knows how to <em>speak</em> Chinese, the rest of the 8,000 or so characters
    a person needs to know to be literate are now comprehensible; they're formed from
    a basic character component identifying the general category of the word's meaning,
    and another character with the same sound.\r\n\r\nThis is a big oversimplification
    of the Chinese writing system, since (for example) it doesn't deal with the fact
    that most Chinese words aren't only one syllable long, even though Chinese texts
    written in Classical style abbreviated words by only representing their first
    syllable by a character.\r\n\r\nAnyways, though, this means that learning to read
    Chinese is not impossible, although more difficult than learning to read an alphabetic
    script: but since there are alternate possible ways to write most characters -
    the radical (meaning) is obvious, but the phonetic often could be several different
    characters, of which only one is \"correct\" - the Chinese writing system serves
    to make the less-educated easy to spot.\r\n\r\nLike English spelling, only much
    worse.\r\n\r\nQuaint traditions may be charming from a distance, but one has to
    spare a thought for the lives of those who actually have to live with them."
  created: '2011-08-22 19:45:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the Chinese wanting to abandon Chinese characters, my Chinese speaker
    in the next room says \"never.\" For inputting on the computer, Pinyin, the current
    standard romanization of Chinese is used. I read that in Taiwan the phonetic alphabet
    based on Chinese characters, known as \"bopomofo,\" is also used. In either case,
    the word is immediately converted into Chinese characters on the screen. Whether
    they will continue to teach brush writing I think would be more of a question,
    but I don't know the status of this.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-08-22 21:16:19'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thanks Thomas, that's pretty much my take on typography too. Nice quote used
    in your interview...\r\n\r\n\"One cannot not communicate.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-24 07:47:33'
date: '2011-08-18 22:51:08'
node_type: forum
title: How to Explain Why Typography Matters

---
