---
author:
  name: Jeremy Dooley
  picture: 110877
body: What does Google stand to gain from web-fonts? Their business MO seems to be
  "build it and they will come, then find a way to suck money from it." They seem
  to have sunk some significant resources into the web-fonts project, and bandwidth/server
  load (although practically free for Google) has to be fairly substantial. Mostly
  to drive adoption of Chrome? Or do you believe this is a genuinely altruistic move?
  What are the benefits/detriment to the type design community? Any speculation/comments?
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: This subject comes up from time to time at font conferences and when font
    folks and web design folks get together. I've found that the best theories emerge
    after about three or four pints, but sadly I've neglected to write any of them
    down. :-)
  created: '2011-08-20 03:55:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Google will eventually\u2014if it is not already\u2014use its web fonts system
    to collect information about internet traffic by monitoring font downloads from
    sites linking directly to Google servers. Free novelty fonts are an excellent
    way for Google to collect this data from thousands, if not millions, of small
    web sites that are not using Google Analytics.\r\n\r\nGoogle's web fonts also
    provide Google with a large base of fonts that can eventually be used with its
    cloud applications at no cost. This provides Google with a huge advantage over
    Microsoft Office, which requires users to manually download and install fonts
    before using. Financially this especially good for Google given that Google pays
    less for its font commissions than some designers would charge for such a license. "
  created: '2011-08-20 04:43:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>but sadly I've neglected to write any of them down</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    is sad, but it sounds like fun."
  created: '2011-08-20 06:24:34'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: Leveraging their *free* library for their cloud and publishing offerings sounds
    like a very likely choice that makes it worthwhile. I am sure there is some data
    that can be gleaned from the font serving, but I am certain they have all the
    data they need from analytics, which is probably installed on 90% of websites
    (I just made that up, but you get the point)
  created: '2011-08-20 23:34:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I suspect that many casual web sites that do not install Google analytics.
    Casual web sites, like tumblr blogs, probably are not being run by people who
    need the kind of traffic analysis offered by Google. But Google would probably
    love to know who is visting those sites.
  created: '2011-08-20 23:44:20'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "You can also make more intelligent guesstimates simply based on the kind
    of web publisher most likely to turn to GWF as a resource. It's all grist for
    the marketing mill.\r\n\r\nBut then again - Google has been discontinuing a lot
    of peripheral projects lately. The staying power of Google Web Fonts is impossible
    to predict. No assurances have been offered AFAIK.\r\n\r\nBut they certainly don't
    need an \"end game\". "
  created: '2011-08-21 17:37:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "There is a huge number of ways that fonts can be leveraged. What I wonder
    about is if Apple or MS will eventually follow suit given that portable computing
    is moving to become dominant and being able to leverage updated or improved software
    for security or other reasons is so useful. And of course for the reasons mentioned
    above. Apple & MS are both in advertising now.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-21 20:51:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "What is google's strategy for any of their properties and technologies? No
    one really knows. Google pushes a lot of stuff out the door, sometimes with little
    rhyme or reason. Some of it sticks, some of it doesn't. \r\n\r\nMy hunch is that
    google dev's wanted easy access to web fonts. "
  created: '2011-08-22 04:08:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">My hunch is that google dev's wanted easy access to web fonts.\r\n\r\nA
    hunch mate! I think they were ill at the prospect of continued dependence on the
    web safe fonts offered by the OS makers and wanted to blaze new saddles.;) In
    addition, they serve a market that's a free-for-all kinda thing and will blaze
    up-market at their leisure, learning the tricks of the trade on-the-fly. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-22 13:13:10'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "I consult for Google Web Fonts, and this post (like all my communication)
    is merely my own opinion and doesn't represent the veiws of the GWF team, Google
    Inc, or anyone else. \r\n\r\nI think http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QTX1lU97z08
    is fairly explicit about what the end game is. Image of text are fundamentally
    bad for Google's core technologies, and plenty of peripheral ones like translation,
    accessibility, etc. The web fonts market is substantially bigger because of Google
    Web Fonts for all proprietary font vendors, so I find it odd when people suggest
    GWF is harming proprietors. Anything that stops web publishers using images of
    text is a gain for Google; 'whats good for the web is good for Google.' \r\n\r\nAnd
    if anyone would like to discuss contributing fonts to Google Web Fonts for money,
    let me know :-) dcrossland@google.com"
  created: '2011-08-27 12:44:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Carni77:\r\n<cite>What does Google stand to gain from web-fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    does Microsoft stand to gain from Core Fonts for the Web?\r\n\r\nThis is just
    part of Google's grand plan to have everyone using the Android OS instead of Microsoft
    Windows."
  created: '2011-08-27 18:42:50'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Google is in the business of collecting and cross-referencing information.
    Every time someone embeds yet another Google's freebie - be it a font or a +1
    button or what have you - this person effectively paying Google back by letting
    them to better track his site's visitors across the web.\r\n\r\nIn other words,
    next time you happily drop that urchin.js on your page keep in mind that while
    it is free for <em>you</em>, it comes at the expense of your visitors sharing
    more than they would likely ever want to with Google.\r\n\r\n/rant\r\n\r\nPS.
    Note how GWF goes out of its way to encourage the use of <em>hosted</em> versions
    of fonts. There is a Download button, but it links to a zip of a TTF, not an @font-face
    package. Clicking on the button will show a big fat red warning saying \"<em>You
    do not need to download the font to use it on your webpages. Instead, refer to
    the \"Use\" section.</em>\" \r\n\r\nI suppose this can all be benign and it might
    just be them treating web designers as complete idiots, but something's off and
    not... erm... genuine if you will."
  created: '2011-08-28 00:15:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@apankrat\r\n\r\n<em>\"Clicking on the button will show a big fat red warning
    saying \"You do not need to download the font to use it on your webpages. Instead,
    refer to the \"Use\" section.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThere's no doubt in my mind that GWF
    is trying to encourage linking to the fonts. It's pretty obvious. Of <strong>course</strong>
    they are. If they weren't, they'd be working against their own interests. (see
    abattis' previous comment)\r\nBut the fonts ARE available for download. Free to
    use as you will. Personally, I see no obligation on Google's part to be Font Squirrel/Fontspring
    2.0.\r\n\r\nNow, I STILL can't figure out the reasoning behind some aspects of
    GWF and I've sounded off on my blog about one of them. But outside of steering
    customers towards using GWF as a service, I'm not sensing anything that isn't
    \"genuine\".\r\nI don't find it underhanded if a company that's providing 1) a
    valuable service for free, 2) open source product for free, then encourages it's
    users to select #1 because it serves that company's interests best. (And there's
    a good argument to be made that using the service IS the user's best choice, too.)\r\nMe,
    I'd rather host my own fonts. But obviously a lot of people do like the service.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-28 04:21:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Ah, so that''s the Google endgame: spam.'
  created: '2011-08-30 05:04:53'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Stepped in, blocked and deleted pleasekiss\u2018 account as he was spamming
    left and right. Unfortunately his comments are still everywhere, so I guess I'll
    have to remove them one by one. :^/"
  created: '2011-08-30 06:59:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: But Yves, now my witty comment no longer makes sense. :)
  created: '2011-08-30 17:36:33'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Rich,\r\n\r\n> But outside of steering customers towards using GWF as a service,
    I'm not sensing anything that isn't \"genuine\".\r\n\r\nGoogle is relying on general
    people's ignorance to distribute its freebie services. Should they have a large
    banner saying \"by using this service you give up your privacy and the privacy
    of your visitors\", do you think they would have not seen a dip in user numbers?
    \r\n\r\nConsider a post office that would offer free PO boxes to anyone, but under
    an explicit condition that they would look and retain a copy of every mail received.
    How many customers would such venture acquire? Or better yet - how many <em>business</em>
    customers? Zero. Why then it is acceptable to use Gmail as a business email box?
    Even if a company is OK with sharing their day-to-day operations with Google,
    their customers might not be. Google enticing ignorant masses to use their services
    effectively does wrong not only them (which they might deserve), but also those
    who they are getting in contact with. And <em>this</em> is what really rubs me
    wrong and what feels disingenuous - Google advances their business by exploiting
    people's ignorance. That's not good."
  created: '2011-09-02 19:49:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@apankrat\r\n\r\nI easily see your point. But isn't every site or service
    on the web \"guilty\" of this?\r\nIf you surf the web, you're visible. Period.\r\nIf
    you wish to live normally in the mainstream, privacy is dead. Databases rule our
    lives more and more each day. It's a big problem that disturbs me greatly.\r\n\r\nHere
    in the US, during the worst recession in modern history, people are being denied
    employment because of bad credit histories. There's something very sick about
    that.\r\n\r\nIs Google Web Fonts a part of this surveillance? Sure.\r\n\r\nReading
    is no longer a private act. There's somebody watching what you read as you read
    it.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2011-09-03 16:18:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Google. You are the product. :)
  created: '2011-09-03 19:07:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Reading is no longer a private act. There's somebody watching what you read
    as you read it.\r\n\r\nI had some great conversations on this topic with AOL executives
    during a previous lifespan which turned on what was to be gained, and at what
    cost. \r\n\r\nIn other words, AOL Could read your email, there being no way around
    it. But would they read it if it meant putting someone full time, with round-the-clock
    patience.\r\n\r\nI think living normally in the mainstream is closer to just letting
    your mail go and assuming everyone else is just too busy.\r\n\r\n>people are being
    denied employment because of bad credit histories. There's something very sick
    about that. Is Google Web Fonts a part of this surveillance?\r\n\r\nBad credit
    histories are the root cause of free font use at Google?\r\n\r\n>a post office
    that would offer free PO boxes to anyone, but under an explicit condition that
    they would look and retain a copy of every mail...\r\n\r\nI think this is the
    wrong place to look. The people who use the Post Office are the ones to be watched;
    from where they come to what they do and to where they go.\r\n\r\nGoogle is a
    process.\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-08 14:25:02'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@db\r\n\r\n>people are being denied employment because of bad credit histories.
    There's something very sick about that. Is Google Web Fonts a part of this surveillance?\r\n\r\nHey,
    don't mess with with my paragraphing, wiseguy.\r\n\r\n>I think living normally
    in the mainstream is closer\r\n>to just letting your mail go and assuming everyone
    else is just too busy.\r\n\r\nIn the age of the smart machine, this is naive.
    Google's expertise is in mechanized extraction of useful information from incredibly
    large amounts of data. This \"reading machine\" doesn't need sleep, it doesn't
    need food, it doesn't ask to get paid or even go to the bathroom.\r\nIt just churns
    and churns and, in response to a simple query, tells you what you want to know.\r\nIt's
    never \"too busy\" to keep an eye on anybody.\r\n\r\nI was thinking yesterday
    about the novel <em>1984</em> and what Orwell would think of the notion that in
    a fairly free society, the telescreen has become a \"must have\" item for which
    we're all voluntarily signing up and are paying good money for, too.\r\n\r\nGeolocation,
    anybody?\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-08 15:39:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">or even go to the bathroom.\r\n\r\nThat might change when it starts trying
    to comprehend typophile posts.\r\n\r\nAs for the fonts api if it ever does get
    the chop (like these http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/09/02/google-desktop-notebook-fast-flip-aardvark_n_947249.html)the
    actual fonts will still be available for other people to step in and roll their
    own solutions. \r\n"
  created: '2011-09-09 01:09:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Google doesn't read your email. They have software that uses algorithms to
    decide which ads to show you based on words in the email. I have no idea what
    that has to do with webfonts. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-09 01:50:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">I have no idea what that has to do with webfonts.\r\n\r\nQuite a bit if
    you're talking about a webfont service from which the user's browser's makes a
    cross domain request.\r\n\r\nWho's entitled to know who is visiting the site?
    And what are they doing with that information?\r\n\r\nI think that's how the thread
    spun off in this direction.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-11 13:34:56'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: ">I have no idea what that has to do with webfonts.\r\n\r\nIt may be okay
    for Google to monetize someone's personal information if they approve of it. For
    a business to cede this kind of information is more complicated. They know an
    awful lot of what happens on the web, and that provides them with real advantages--not
    always immediately obvious. Like other \"big players\" in the history of computing,
    they have at least the opportunity to sink money into something until they win.
    If their project had to pay for itself on the merits and models of other companies,
    it might not be possible. "
  created: '2011-09-12 02:13:17'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "> Quite a bit if you're talking about a webfont service from which the user's
    browser's makes a cross domain request.\r\n> Who's entitled to know who is visiting
    the site? And what are they doing with that information?\r\n> I think that's how
    the thread spun off in this direction.\r\n\r\nThat also apply to all other webfonts
    providers, not just google webfonts.\r\n\r\nWith Google Webfonts, you can always
    download and host the fonts yourself in your own site, if you want to."
  created: '2011-10-01 05:36:52'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>With Google Webfonts, you can always download and host the fonts yourself
    in your own site, if you want to.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd \"free of charge\", I doubt
    you can't even pay for other services to host your fonts (not reasonable fee at
    least)."
  created: '2011-10-01 16:33:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>With Google Webfonts, you can always download and host the fonts yourself
    in your own site, if you want to.</em>\r\n\r\nNo. That downloadable version is
    useless. It contains just one format, so one cannot host <em>it</em>. But then
    when passed through a converter it yields fonts that look different (and typically
    worse) compared to the hosted Google Fonts version.\r\n\r\nIt is disingenuous
    on Google's part to offer the download option in its current format. \"Here, we
    are open. Take the fonts if you want them (but they are sort of not the same thing,
    and you really don't want them, it's the hosted stuff that you want).\""
  created: '2011-10-27 14:54:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'There are two types of folks: Those that like to leverage hosted code to
    better offload their own server''s bandwidth and enable faster downloads for their
    web site users (not to mention faster dev and deployment cycles), and those that
    are paranoid that Google knows too much. Both are valid lines of thinking. '
  created: '2011-10-27 16:53:25'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "apankrat, I am an independent font consultant who does some work with the
    Google Web Fonts team. \r\n\r\nThe TTFs in the convenient download are for the
    needs of most people, who want to download and install on their own computers
    for making web page mockups in image editors/vector drawing apps.\r\n\r\nThese
    TTFs are not really different to the actual TTFs served - the served fonts are
    just subset, you can download the subset files that are served from http://code.google.com/p/googlefontdirectory
    - which also includes the FontForge subset.py script I use to make these subset
    files.  This Google Code repo is linked to from the Download modal dialog. \r\n\r\nHow
    you do your web font format conversion is up to you. As far as I know by looking
    at the results, the EOT/WOFF conversion done by the API servers is just compression,
    it doesn't effect the way the fonts look - as you can see by looking at fonts
    in MSIE8 (EOT) and Firefox 3 (WOFF) and Chrome (TTF) - so if you look at your
    converter's options, perhaps you can stop it from changing things. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-28 00:08:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH: \"No. That downloadable version is useless. It contains just one format,
    so one cannot host it...\"\r\n\r\nWell, why not!? Must be a woff hu?  ;)"
  created: '2011-10-29 12:05:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: JH? That wasn't me, David, that was the other guy with an Arabic icon.
  created: '2011-10-30 00:07:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ;) sorry! Must be the smokey atmosphere down here in type hell.
  created: '2011-10-30 11:56:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > JH? That wasn't me, David, that was the other guy with an Arabic
    icon.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, it was the guy from Vancouver with the rocket in
    his avatar."
  created: '2011-10-30 12:25:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Yeah, explain <em>that</em>, David... :)
  created: '2011-10-30 14:03:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Yeah, explain that, David... :)\r\n\r\nWhat I see in avatars is unexplainable.
    When the smaoke is clear, John's reminds me of a frenchman winking and giving
    the \"ok\" sign from inside a cleavage :p Kalids is a desert landscape at sunset.
    \r\n\r\nGoogle's service of a 'desktop' font format, can probably be explained
    by the incompleteness of a web font format, or it's lack of either a benefits
    list or a faq; or maybe it could be something else like improper metadata or the
    desire to make it normal for clients to format hop their fonts, a commonly illegal
    practice for commercial fonts;)\r\n \r\nYou'd have to ask Google. "
  created: '2011-10-30 15:18:08'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>desire to make it normal for clients to format hop their fonts, a commonly
    illegal practice for commercial fonts;)</em>\r\n\r\nSadly the truth is, as always,
    more mundane than such conspiracy theories. When Google Web Fonts launched the
    downloads feature, there was a bullet list explaining why Google Web Fonts was
    offering the download: very frequently before the people who make web pages actually
    make web pages, they first make mockup images of web pages, using desktop applications,
    that are shown to The Deciders. Therefore having desktop-installable versions
    of the fonts that are as close to the web fonts being served to browsers is extremely
    useful in promoting the widest possible use of web fonts. \r\n\r\nTINC.\r\n\r\nps.
    I see that cursed frenchman now too! :)"
  created: '2011-11-01 06:40:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Conspiracy theory? I''m pretty sure that is not the case. '
  created: '2011-11-03 17:04:38'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@berlow\r\n\r\n>a commonly illegal practice for commercial fonts\r\n\r\nI'm
    tired of the word \"illegal\" getting thrown around in the context of licensing
    agreements and copyright.\r\n\r\nIn the first case, if I take the copy of a font
    I licensed and the license says, \"\r\nDont' reformat\" and I go right ahead and
    do so, depending upon what I do next, it's breach of contract. Breaching a contract
    is not illegal.\r\n\r\nIf you claim it is then give me a word for the other things
    that are illegal, like burglary, driving 70 miles per hr when the sign says 50,
    rape, murder, and so forth.\r\n\r\nIn the second instance, should one accept the
    premise of fonts as copyrightable software, it's still not \"illegal\".\r\n\r\nSo,
    whatever habits you don't like that your imagination tells you Google fonts is
    trying to foster, neither is \"illegal\" under any circumstances.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-03 17:50:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I'm tired of the word \"illegal\"\r\n\r\nTake nap."
  created: '2011-11-04 17:02:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>If you claim it is then give me a word for the other things that
    are illegal, like burglary, driving 70 miles per hr when the sign says 50, rape,
    murder, and so forth.</em>\r\n\r\nCriminal.\r\n\r\nIllegal means contrary to law.
    Property law, including intellectual property law, establishes norms regarding
    use of property, and uses that are contrary to property law are illegal. Intellectual
    property tends to be a matter of civil rather than criminal law, but it is still
    a matter of law and that which is contrary to the law is what we call illegal."
  created: '2011-11-04 20:00:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\nLook, I just pass on what I read from authoritative sources in
    law books, attorneys, and the like.\r\nOf course I run it through my own mental
    mill and think it through on my own - as every citizen ideally should but doesn't
    because we have lives to live.\r\n\r\nQuoth The Maven, \"Nevermore\".\r\n\r\nhttp://konstellations.s3.amazonaws.com/12-nevermore/index.html\r\n\r\nOf
    course I saw the word \"criminal\" coming. Thanks for that.\r\n\r\nYour summary
    of Intellectual Property law is just plain wrong. There is no equivalency between
    what's commonly referred to as \"Intellectual Property\" - copyright, patent,
    and trademark - and real property. ('Real property' as a legal term, that is.)
    None.\r\n\r\n@db\r\n\r\nI have awakened refreshed. Thanks."
  created: '2011-11-07 15:34:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>There is no equivalency between what's commonly referred to as \"Intellectual
    Property\" - copyright, patent, and trademark - and real property.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    never used the term equivalency. What I said was that both intellectual property
    and physical property are subjects of law, and that the law regarding both deals
    with rights of usage. So, for example, I may own a piece of land according to
    property law as it applies to real estate, but what I can do on that land and
    how I can use that land is further circumscribed and limited by law, including
    other aspects of property law (ergo, in Canada, I do not own the substrate, to
    which the crown could sell mining rights to someone else). My point was that if
    we take the term 'illegal' to mean contrary to law -- which is the simple parsing
    of the word --, then both physical and intangible asset law defines usage rights
    whose violation may be termed illegal, i.e. contrary to the law regarding those
    rights.\r\n\r\nIf you are going to insist on the inequivalency of tangible and
    intellectual property in law, then you should also not bunch together copyright,
    patent and trademark, since these are not equivalent in either their basis or
    the obligations they impose. Of the three, patent is arguably the closest to physical
    property (but see link below) since it is a grant of privilege (periodic monopoly)
    by the state, analogous to property title: you own something because the state
    grants you rights to that particular thing. Copyright is associated with the act
    of creation, and applies to whole categories of creative works not to particular
    things, which is why registration of copyright is optional: you own something
    that belongs to a category of copyrightable creations because you made it. Trademark
    is founded on use in the market, even in the case of registered trademark, and
    comes with an obligation to defend: you own something because you use it and actively
    prevent other people from using it.\r\n\r\nFinally, this article on <a href=\"http://ben.klemens.org/blog/arch/00000010.htm\">physical
    vs. intellectual property</a> is a good read. It argues, persuasively I believe,
    that physical and intellectual property law are not only directly analogous but,
    in fact, aspects of a single conception of property."
  created: '2011-11-08 18:04:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Where's that "garden fence"!? when you need it ;)
  created: '2011-11-09 13:04:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\nThanks for the link. Y'know, I was brought up in an atmosphere
    and worked for quite a few years in an industry where argument was normal. Hell,
    screaming was normal.\r\nAttorneys and ultra-orthodox rabbis, at least, understand
    this. But I'm finding that it's a very thin-skinned world out there. Folks can't
    take the heat but won't get out of the kitchen.\r\nLook, knowledgeable authors
    have written books about this stuff and we could go on and on.\r\n\r\ndb's comment
    gave me a laugh. Probably because I just finished putting up an electric gate
    and garden fence in front of my house. Garden fences can be good things. And as
    the poet wrote, ironically, good fences make good neighbors. At least for those
    who won't go behind their father's saying.\r\n\r\nLet us, at least, think originally
    about copyright.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2011-11-09 14:31:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Is that "(electric gate) and garden fence" or electric (gate and garden fence)"?
  created: '2011-11-09 15:04:37'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@t&eacute;\r\n\r\nA black aluminum electric gate with side extensions - one
    of them functioning as a door. And extended further by a black vinyl chain link
    fence.\r\n\r\nIt would have been nice to fully \"electrify\" and watch anybody
    trying to gain unauthorized access fry - great entertainment, my own private Huntsville!
    - but alas, no.\r\n\r\nAnd barbed wire on top, like they do in Miami - tough place,
    Miami - would be over the top where I live.\r\n\r\n@jh\r\n\r\nOne link deserves
    another, although I looked quickly and you're definitely getting the better part
    of the deal:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rhetoricainc.com/MellinkoffLecture.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-09 15:59:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The trouble with all this talk about 'the new age of copyright' and its travails
    is the widespread failure to recognise that we're still, also, living in the old
    age of copyright. The corporate exploitation of intellectual property law, the
    use of such law not as a protection of creative work but as a business model,
    the ranks of lawyers and lobbyists, tend to obscure our memory of what copyright
    has done and should do: protect the right of creative individuals to commercially
    exploit their work and to limit the unremunerated exploitation of that work by
    others, including or especially exploitation by companies whose resources could
    not otherwise be opposed by individual creators. The fact that the owners of capital
    have found ways to exploit copyright and other intellectual property law for their
    own purposes simply confirms the nature of capital, it doesn't render the protective
    function of such law obsolete. So while the pundits and the lawyers are busy debating
    copyright in the context of new media possibilities and old media intransigence,
    there are still creative individuals whose work is open to various kinds of exploitation,
    including exploitation by multi-billion dollar corporations whose resources allow
    them to leverage far more value from the work than the individual creator could.
    One of the ways in which this old exploitation takes place in new dress takes
    advantage of open source and libre idealism, by which companies avoid paying fees
    commensurate with the value they derive from creative works by convincing young
    and na\xEFve designers to give their work away for free because it is good for
    society, the digital community, etc.. I'm getting tired of people representing
    major corporations writing to me asking me to consider making this or that font
    available under the Open Font License. They want the fonts because they can derive
    value from them that will in one way or another -- it hardly matters what the
    engame is -- add to their profits. So they can damn well pay for the fonts."
  created: '2011-11-10 00:58:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"tend to obscure our memory of what copyright has done and should do: protect
    the right of creative individuals to commercially exploit their work\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    note that's only half of it. The other half is to ensure that society as a whole
    benefits from the inventiveness of mankind by not allowing said rights to be possessed
    in perpetuity. \r\n\r\nRight now neither is really happening to the extent it
    used to (and, presumedly to the extent the original intentions of IP laws were).
    Corporations are benefitting, though. "
  created: '2011-11-10 01:31:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: You tell 'em John!
  created: '2011-11-10 02:31:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The other half is to ensure that society as a whole benefits from the
    inventiveness of mankind by not allowing said rights to be possessed in perpetuity.
    </em>\r\n\r\nYes, although one shouldn't give the impression that the social benefits
    are postponed until copyright expires. We benefit in all sorts of ways from works
    that are still protected and whose creators are still receiving income from the
    sale, rent, licensing etc. of their work. Also, in many cases the copyright status
    of a work has little bearing on its cost to the public: a concert ticket costs
    pretty much the same whether the works performed are by long dead composers or
    by living ones; classic movies on television are interrupted by just as many commercials
    as modern ones."
  created: '2011-11-10 05:26:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n\"tend to obscure our memory of what copyright has done and should
    do: protect the right of creative individuals to commercially exploit their work
    and to limit the unremunerated exploitation of that work by others, including
    or especially exploitation by companies whose resources could not otherwise be
    opposed by individual creators.\"\r\n\r\nOy vey. So much misunderstanding in so
    few words. Uh, you got anything empirical, to demonstrate that copyright does
    what you say it does, or are you just making it up?\r\n\r\nCopyright as welfare
    for \"creative individuals\". Copyright queens?\r\n\r\nAnd there is no \"right\"
    in copyright. Never was. I'll come back and with some quotes, and set you straight.
    \r\n\r\nWhere do you get this stuff?"
  created: '2011-11-12 04:19:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Go read up on 19th century literary piracy, which provided the direct context
    for modern copyright law.
  created: '2011-11-12 19:45:01'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>And there is no \"right\" in copyright. Never was.</cite>\r\n\r\n\"The
    Congress shall have Power \u2026 To promote the Progress of Science and useful
    Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right
    to their respective Writings and Discoveries\".\r\n\r\n\u2014\_U.S. Constitution,
    Article I, \xA7 8"
  created: '2011-11-12 20:32:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "En garde!\r\n\r\n@butterick\r\n\r\nI don't know what John is referring to.
    I've seen all three Pirates Of The Carribean movies and Johnny Depp didn't download
    a song once, not once.\r\n\r\nWith that out of the way, I want to thank you for
    buttressing my point!\r\n\r\nJudge Benjamin Kaplan wrote, in his book <em>An Unhurried
    View Of Copyright</em>:\r\n\r\n\"To say that copyright is \"property\", although
    a fundamentally unhistorical statement, would not be badly misdescriptive if one
    were prepared to acknowledge that there is property and property.\"\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    there are rights and there are rights. The fiction is that the \"right\" in copyright
    is a \"right\" on a par with, say, freedom of speech as it is written in the First
    Amendment. This, of course, is how the music, movie, and publishing industries
    frame it and spend a fortune getting the general public to believe.\r\nBut factually
    it's crap, to put it bluntly. The copy \"right\" itself is <strong>not</strong>
    in the Constitution and could be revoked instantly by a single act of Congress.\r\nWhat
    kind of \"right\" worthy of the name can be revoked instantly by a single act
    of Congress?\r\n\r\nIn 1909, in passing a new copyright act, Congress addressed
    the basis for copyright in the United States:\r\n\r\n\"The enactment of copyright
    legislation by Congress under the terms of the Constitution is not based on any
    natural right that the author has in his writing, for the Supreme Court [in Wheaton
    v. Peter] has held that such rights as he has are <em>purely statutory rights</em>,
    but upon the ground that <em>the welfare of the public will be served</em> and
    progress of science and useful arts will be promoted by  securing to authors for
    limited periods the exclusive right to their writings. <em>The Consititution does
    not establish copyrights</em>, but provides that Congress shall have the power
    to grant such rights if it thinks best. <em>Not primarily for the benefit af the
    author, but primarily for the benefit of the public such rights are given</em>.
    Not that any particular class of citizens, however worthy, may benefit, but because
    the policy is believed to be for the benefit of the great body of people, in that
    it will stimulate writing and invention, to give some bonus to authors and inventors.\"\r\n\r\nI'll
    be back with more about this so-called \"right\"."
  created: '2011-11-13 04:00:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The fact that one 'right' is granted by the state in its foundational document
    and another 'right' is granted by the state in its legislative function doesn't
    much impress me one way or the other. I hold that there are indeed natural property
    rights associated with creation -- indeed, that creation is a stronger basis for
    property and rights than purchase, grant, etc. -- and I don't recognise the authority
    of any state to abrogate those rights.
  created: '2011-11-13 05:20:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Also, in many cases the copyright status of a work has little bearing on
    its cost to the public\"\r\n\r\nMinor nitpick in that we're not paying for the
    movie nor music in those examples...we're merely paying for TV or a Concert.\r\n\r\nThe
    TV Station and Artist are the ones involved in the purchase (and typically, unlike
    property, they don't actually own the material...they're merely renting a copy).
    \r\n\r\nNo particular point in that other than direct comparisons to physical
    property in the legal sense isn't clear cut. "
  created: '2011-11-13 05:37:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'My point was that the copyright status of the works that we enjoy in those
    examples makes no difference to the price we pay for that enjoyment. So, for instance,
    the price of the concert ticket is the same regardless of whether the works performed
    are in copyright or not. Now, if the composer is alive, he presumably gets some
    cut of the ticket price as a performance royalty; if the composer is dead and
    the work is out of copyright, then someone else gets that portion of the price:
    the savings isn''t passed on to the ticket buyer. This is what I meant when I
    said that the copyright status of a work may have little bearing on its cost to
    the public.'
  created: '2011-11-13 06:22:29'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>I want to thank you for buttressing my point</cite>\r\n\r\nRespectfully
    Richard, I'm not buttressing your point. I'm suggesting that whatever your point
    is, it rests on deep misrepresentations (or perhaps misunderstandings) about how
    U.S. law works. \r\n\r\nAnyone is allowed to argue \u2014\_and many do \u2014\_that
    contemporary copyright policy has drifted from its original purpose, and has been
    influenced by corporate interests. For instance, Disney lobbied heavily for the
    1998 Copyright Term Extension Act. That's a fact.\r\n\r\nBut it's incorrect to
    make generalizations like \"there is no right in copyright\" or \"there are rights
    and there are rights\" or \"what kind of right worthy of the name can be revoked
    by a single act of Congress.\" The answer: all of them, to one degree or another.
    The judicial and legislative branches can revoke your rights too. No legal right
    is absolute, not even freedom of speech. And if one right seems \"stronger\" than
    another, it's only because government has made more of a habit of respecting that
    right."
  created: '2011-11-13 15:17:30'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>The judicial and legislative branches can revoke your rights too</cite>\r\n\r\nMeant
    to say: The judicial and <em>executive</em> branches can revoke your rights too."
  created: '2011-11-13 19:00:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"My point was that the copyright status of the works that we enjoy in those
    examples makes no difference to the price we pay for that enjoyment.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    my point is that it makes a huge different the price fellow artists, businesses,
    distributors, libraries, schools, etc. pay.\r\n\r\nThe end-user comparison is
    valid too, but not the whole picture. "
  created: '2011-11-14 00:37:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Fair enough.
  created: '2011-11-14 03:28:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<strong>Attorney For John Hudson</strong>: Your Honor, if it pleases the
    court, my client is unimpressed by legal precedent and considers it his \"natural\"
    right to control his creations.\r\n\r\n<strong>Judge Judy</strong>: Well, maybe
    on the little island of Gabriola they recognize such a right, but here in the
    United States no court ever has and I'm not about to be the first judge in 250
    years to try. Infringement is a Statutory Tort, that's all. And tell your client
    to watch his attitude. If Mr. Hudson wants to be impressed in Rikers for few days
    with real criminals, not the college kids whose supposed lack of morals has him
    in a snit, I'd be happy to oblige him.\r\nAnd he's not trying to pee on my leg,
    is he?\r\n\r\n<strong>Attorney For John Hudson</strong>: Oh, no, Your Honor. My
    client would never dream of such a thing.\r\n\r\n<strong>Judge Judy</strong> Alright
    then. Here's my ruling:\r\nMr. Hudson's talk of a 'natural' right is sometimes
    called \"The Agrarian Metaphor\". In other words, the right to reap what you sow.
    It just doesn't exist in US black letter law or jurisprudence, so please tell
    your client he's up a creek without a paddle.\r\nThe agrarian argument is baloney.
    But for a more ritzy rebuttal, nothing beats what my colleague Judge Benjy Kaplan
    has to say about the 'right' to copy:\r\n\r\n<em>\"If any person has any 'natural
    rights', not the least must be a right to imitate his fellow, and thus to reap
    what he has not sown. Education, after all, proceeds from a kind of mimicry, and
    'progress', if it is not entirely an illusion, depends on generous indulgence
    of copying.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIn light of this, I sentence your client to twelve years
    in Leavenworth, eleven years in Twelveworth, and five to ten in Woolworth, time
    to be served consecutively.\r\n[Strikes gavel.]\r\n\r\nNext case.\r\n\r\nIn my
    next installment, I'll toss some red meat to Berkson, and talk about the agrarian
    metaphor in the context of the Torah. I first learned about it in religious school
    too many years ago to admit to. But since farming was not a big activity for nice
    Jewish boys in Brooklyn, I'm delighted by the newfound relevance to copyright
    law, at least.\r\n\r\n(Sorry to skip other comments for now, time for a commercial
    break. I'll be back.)"
  created: '2011-11-15 05:06:42'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>I'll be back.</em>\r\n\r\nI, for one, wish you didn't. You certainly
    get carried away by the exuberance of your own verbosity. No more sugary drinks
    for you."
  created: '2011-11-15 07:03:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "College kids? Imitation? I'm talking about people deriving commercial gain
    from the unpaid exploitation of other people's creative works.\r\n\r\nAgrarian?
    Don't get me started on agriculture. Worst idea human beings ever came up with."
  created: '2011-11-15 08:04:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Since we're relating courtroom exchanges -- fictional or otherwise --, here's
    one of my favourites, as told by the late great Utah Phillips:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Oh
    so many times [Ammon Hennacy] stood up in front of Federal District Judge Ritter,
    that old fart, and he'd be picked up for picketing illegally, and he'd never plead
    innocent or guilty \u2014 he'd plead anarchy.\r\n\r\nAnd Ritter'd say, \"What's
    an anarchist, Hennacy?\" and Ammon would say, \"Why an anarchist is anybody who
    doesn't need a cop to tell him what to do.\"  Kind of a fundamentalist anarchist,
    huh?\r\n\r\nAnd Ritter'd say, \"But Ammon, you broke the law, what about that?\"
    and Ammon'd say, \"Oh, Judge, your damn laws: the good people don't need 'em and
    the bad people don't obey 'em so what use are they?\"</blockquote>"
  created: '2011-11-15 08:12:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@butterick:\r\n<cite>And there is no \"right\" in copyright. Never was.</cite>\r\n\r\n\"The
    Congress shall have Power \u2026 To promote the Progress of Science and useful
    Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right
    to their respective Writings and Discoveries\".\r\n\r\n\u2014 U.S. Constitution,
    Article I, \xA7 8\r\n\r\n\r\nEven so, he did have a point.\r\n\r\nCopyright is
    not a <em>natural law right of authors</em>. This means that if no copyright laws
    existed, or if copyright laws are weak and only provide an inadequate term of
    protection for authors, and so on, there is no grounds to legitimately complain
    that the situation is fundamentally unjust.\r\n\r\nHaving a copyright law is a
    <em>choice</em> that a society makes. A community chooses to make a bargain with
    authors in order to receive the blessings of more of their production.\r\n\r\nThis
    means that violating copyright law <em>is</em> still morally wrong, because it's
    failing to fulfill a bargain made on one's behalf by one's democratically-elected
    government. Like not paying your taxes.\r\n\r\nBut there is still an important
    distinction that referring to copyright violation as \"stealing\" (appropriate
    in some contexts) tends to obscure. The distinction is that copyright owners,
    when they go to Congress asking for the copyright laws to be extended and toughened,
    cannot demand such changes <em>as a matter of right</em>, a matter of simple justice,
    but must instead face having their request considered on the basis of whether
    granting it is in the interests of society as a whole."
  created: '2011-11-18 18:58:18'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: "@quadibloc:\r\nThe last couple times that copyright laws have been lengthened
    and strengthened, the pubic was pointedly excluded from the discussion. Instead,
    Congresscritters who receive massive \"donations\" from the movie and record industries
    have repeatedly passed laws that benif those industries rather than society as
    a whole. Thus, the deal has already been broken and NOT by the \"pirates\"\r\n\r\nWith
    that said, people DO deserve to get paid for the work they do AND copyrights,
    as perverted as their modern form is, are still the law of the land. Thus, while
    I don't pirate, that's a course of action I take for reasons entirely different
    from not wanting to break an already-broken social contract."
  created: '2011-11-18 23:32:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n\"I'm talking about people deriving commercial gain from the unpaid
    exploitation of other people's creative works.\"\r\n\r\nYou've been doing this
    your whole life. Me too. So?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-19 15:50:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@quadribloc\r\n\r\nWhile I mostly agree with what you wrote...\r\n\r\n\"This
    means that violating copyright law is still morally wrong, because it's failing
    to fulfill a bargain made on one's behalf by one's democratically-elected government.
    Like not paying your taxes.\"\r\n\r\nThis is way too goody-two-shoes for me. While
    driving, I'm sure you never, ever go over the speed limit. That would be morally
    wrong. And the people occupying the parks, are they morally wrong? The USA was
    founded on an act that was against the law. And the expected violence ensued.
    Was that, too, morally wrong? Or is the democratically-elected government thing
    the dividing line? Too much lumping together. Which, thankfully, you didn't do
    in your following paragraph.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-19 16:15:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@butterball\r\n\r\n<em>But it's incorrect to make generalizations like \"there
    is no right in copyright\" or \"there are rights and there are rights\" or \"what
    kind of right worthy of the name can be revoked by a single act of Congress.\"</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    it's not incorrect and the statment is disingenuous, are you a liar, Butterick?\r\n\r\nAs
    you're perfectly aware, a statement such as \"there is no right in copyright\"
    is, first and foremost, a rhetorical device. Advocates in court use such rhetorical
    devices, judges use them, legal scholars use them. People of high reputation.
    It's a quite correct and even moral thing, that is, when the rhetorical device
    is being used to illuminate.\r\n\r\nYou, however, choose another rhetorical tack
    - one which obfuscates. Instead of dealing with the substance and clear purpose
    of my statements, you simply label them as 'incorrect' thus paving the way for
    the incredibly unhelpful statement: \"The answer: all of them, to one degree or
    another.\"\r\n\r\nThe right in copyright does not exist - to the extent claimed
    - until after litigation. That's a very odd \"right\" in contrast to the right
    of free speech.\r\nTo dismiss it, as you do, with the phrase \"to one degree or
    another\", such a profound difference, is more than incorrect, it's deceptive.
    \r\n\r\nBut then again, you've lied before: Where in black letter law does it
    say that fonts are copyrightable software? Please show me. And yet you say that
    such is so.\r\nSaying something is so with no basis in law is a lie, don't you
    think?\r\n\r\nIrrespectfully, because you don't deserve it,\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>"
  created: '2011-11-19 16:38:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Richard Fink:\r\n<cite>This is way too goody-two-shoes for me. While driving,
    I'm sure you never, ever go over the speed limit. That would be morally wrong.
    And the people occupying the parks, are they morally wrong?</cite>\r\n\r\nI wasn't
    trying to get into details. Of course it's wrong to subject other motorists or
    pedestrians to a hazard by driving a motor vehicle in an unsafe manner. But then,
    they also set speed limits for purposes like energy conservation, and even limits
    intended for safety are set on a blanket basis.\r\n\r\nGenerally speaking, the
    public is not being particularly inconvenienced by most of the protests connected
    with Occupy Wall Street. Other types of protest, that block traffic and so on,
    <em>are</em> violating the rights of others; but that has to be balanced against
    the validity of the protest.\r\n\r\nI'm just saying that I don't reject having
    a copyright law simply because I don't believe that we were under an obligation
    to have one.\r\n\r\n@mjkerpan:\r\n<cite>The last couple times that copyright laws
    have been lengthened and strengthened, the pubic was pointedly excluded from the
    discussion. Instead, Congresscritters who receive massive \"donations\" from the
    movie and record industries have repeatedly passed laws that benif those industries
    rather than society as a whole. Thus, the deal has already been broken and NOT
    by the \"pirates\".</cite>\r\n\r\nThat weakens the social contract argument concerning
    the most recent copyright laws, but I wouldn't say that it breaks it.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a problem with the balance between popular control of democracies and the restraining
    influence of elites. It seems most countries have erred too much on the side of
    being \"a republic and not a democracy\"."
  created: '2011-11-19 17:44:54'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>... morally wrong ... like not paying your taxes.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    paying my taxes might be illegal, but it have never been \"morally wrong\" around
    here."
  created: '2011-11-19 18:53:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Whether illegal is immoral often depends on whether you have a highly corrupt
    or relatively honest government, and whether you have just or unjust laws. '
  created: '2011-11-19 19:32:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@berkson\r\n\r\n<em>Whether illegal is immoral often depends on whether you
    have a highly corrupt or relatively honest government, and whether you have just
    or unjust laws.</em>\r\n\r\nThank you Bill. Now, I MUST read your book on the
    Ethics of Our Fathers. My grade school hebrew teacher used to read a passage every
    friday afternoon - before everyone had to skedaddle off for Shabbos or, at least,
    appear to be doing so. Hah!\r\n\r\nClue, if you read my post: the reason I got
    riled up over butterball disingenuously lumping all the things we refer to as
    \"rights\" goes back, once again, for me, to the picture of Chris Lozos in Vietnam
    posted on Facebook.\r\n\r\nYes, kids, there was a time when you got a letter in
    the mail from the US Government that told you to report for your pre-induction
    physical. If you did a no-show, and kept it up, ultimately a warrant was issued
    for your arrest.\r\n\r\nPeople have fought and died for the rights we enjoy. Are
    we really going to say to the people in our armed forces that they are fighting
    for our right to life, to liberty, to freedom of assembly, to freedom of speech,
    and to the right of Universal Studios to a perpetual income stream?\r\n\r\nThe
    idea rates a hearty, \"fuck you, asshole\".\r\n\r\nAnd as a matter of law, luckily,
    it's nonsense.\r\n\r\nGonna go buy your book. You'll autograph it for me, I'm
    sure.\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard Fink</a>\r\nBlog:
    <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>"
  created: '2011-11-21 02:35:17'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "copyright is a mickey-mouse law...\r\n\r\nsing it with me!  m-i-c... k-e-y...\r\n\r\ni
    plead anarchy.  i bleed anarchy.\r\n\r\nbut hey, the solution is _simple_.\r\n\r\n1.
    \ find someone stealing a font.\r\n2.  have them arrested.\r\n3.  take them to
    court.\r\n4.  win in court.\r\n5.  collect the judgment.\r\n6.  (you know it's
    coming!)\r\n7.  profit!  whooppee!\r\n\r\nthis will scare everyone _so_much_\r\nthey
    will never steal a font again.\r\n\r\nhey, it worked for the music biz...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-23 22:35:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bb\r\n\r\nWhy? Because we're greedy!.... M o u s eeeeeeeeeeh!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-24 01:44:22'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: .
  created: '2011-11-24 13:49:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Chased off de intellect by caffeinated consussionists? try finkbegone and
    any kind of bird shot.
  created: '2011-12-03 13:14:50'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: I don't have any great insight into the inner workings at Google but I think
    I should point out that the people working on Google Web Fonts work within the
    Google Apps group, so one of their prime objectives has been to allow the use
    of a richer fonts in Google spreadsheets, presentations, and other documents.  Conspiracy
    theories are a fun topic but I doubt Google has a grand strategy of world domination
    based on fonts.
  created: '2011-12-05 08:19:57'
date: '2011-08-20 03:27:09'
title: Google Webfonts Endgame

---
