---
author:
  name: Gunarta
  picture: 121772
body: "Simple question that i haven't the answer yet:\r\n\r\n\"Is Calligraphy branch
  of Typography?\"\r\n\r\nPlease answer freely, it can be link or anything else and
  I ask you permission to quote your answer,\r\n\r\nBest Regards\r\nGunarta"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "the answer is: No.\r\n\r\nFeel free to quote."
  created: '2011-09-07 13:25:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "But, in case a yes-or-no answer is not sufficiently useful, note that while
    it wouldn't really make sense to regard typography as a branch of calligraphy
    either, it isn't utterly unreasonable to entertain the idea that, to a limited
    extent, at least in some sense, that <em>type design</em> could be considered
    a branch of calligraphy.\r\n\r\nHopefully, this more fully clarifies the relationship
    between the two fields, and will help to direct your future researches on this
    topic."
  created: '2011-09-07 13:37:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: As quadibloc suggests, the inverse is more likely the truer statement, horse-and-cart-wise...
  created: '2011-09-07 14:40:25'
- author:
    name: cntrational
  body: I would consider calligraphy to be a type of typography.
  created: '2011-09-07 14:59:01'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: Not to potentially hijack the thread, but what about lettering? Is lettering
    calligraphy, or vice versa? Is lettering typography?
  created: '2011-09-07 16:37:27'
- author:
    name: Urieal
    picture: 123310
  body: "The answer is \"No\"...and here's why I say that.\r\n\r\nCalligraphy comes
    from the greek word Kaligraphia, from the root words kallos and graphein. It can
    be literally translated as \"beauty in writing\".\r\n\r\nTypography, also, comes
    from greek...from the root words typos and grapheia. It can be literally translated
    as \"figure writing\". However, this doesn't really give the whole effect, since
    the greek word typos also connotates a dent or impression made by striking one
    figure against another. It is appropriate for the concept of a printing press,
    where each glyph would strike the paper, not only leaving ink, but a minute indention
    into the paper.\r\n\r\nCalligraphy does not follow any of the aforementioned traits
    of typography. Calligraphy, furthermore, is not required to concern itself with
    readability, consistency or reproduction. Typography, however, must take such
    things into consideration. Calligraphy is inconsistent in presentation and usage.
    Typography must be consistent. \r\n\r\nElements of calligraphy can certainly be
    incorporated into typography, especially when talking about the aesthetics of
    glyphs."
  created: '2011-09-07 16:56:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since the OP may be trying to get us to do his homework, I'm not sure that
    there's anything wrong with hijacking this thread. In my post, I treated lettering
    and calligraphy as if they were identical, which indeed is a mistake.\r\n\r\nI'd
    treat lettering as a sub-discipline of calligraphy, and type design as a branch
    of both. I know that a book I have on lettering - a Dover edition, naturally -
    treats of both calligraphy and type design as well."
  created: '2011-09-07 16:58:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: http://typophile.com/node/57941
  created: '2011-09-07 18:19:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, definitions are somewhat arbitrary, but as far as skills, there is
    a definite divide between writing and built up letters, whether on paper or in
    a font development program. Writing means the hand in motion with a tool, leaving
    a mark in a stroke. When you build up letters, main skill is in the eye, rather
    than the hand. \r\n\r\nIn beautiful writing, it's both the eye and the hand. And
    as John Hudson has pointed out, it's really misleading to call what scribes did
    \"calligraphy\" as their top priority was not to be beautiful in an ornamental
    way, but to be readable. This is something like the distinction between text and
    display type. I read recently, for example, that even in the days of the scribes,
    a different person from the scribe who did the text would do decorative built-up
    initial letters and illumination for a book. \r\n\r\nThere are now folks who do
    both built up letters and written letters for emotionally evocative display, as
    well as occasional display fonts. But it's more unusual for that person who does
    hand done custom display to also do text type. And if they do undertake it, they
    are aware that it involves different challenges. So I would say that functionally
    the more important distinctions are between writing and built up letters, and
    between text and display. \r\n\r\nAnd of course there is a lot of overlap because
    the practiced and artistic eye is involved in all of them. But to master all of
    them is very rare, with Hermann Zapf being a rare example who is a master of all
    aspects.  "
  created: '2011-09-07 18:22:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I wonder how rare it really is.\r\nI wouldn't put myself in the same
    class as Zapf, but I've done a bit of calligraphy.\r\nOther type designers with
    calligraphy skills: Vasilyeva, Veljovich, Lester, Slimbach, Shaw.\r\nNote that
    these are not \"lettering artists who make script fonts\", which would be more
    the Michael Clark m\xE9tier.\r\nI don't believe these categories (designer/calligrapher)
    are particularly precise or indicative of type, typography or layout quality,
    it's more a question of which direction you're coming from, and where your interests
    and aptitudes lie.\r\nOthers?\r\n\r\nSurprisingly, Ale Paul is not AFAIK a calligrapher
    (although collaborator Angel Koziupa is)\u2014which goes to show that as with
    most aspects of design, it's results that count, not how you get there.\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-07 18:48:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, that's a good question, and I don't know how much overlap there is,
    but my impression is that it's a minority of designers of text type who are good
    calligraphers, and visa versa. I do think you'd concede that you can have the
    eye skills and not the hand skills. If I remember rightly Matthew Carter, for
    example, is not a calligrapher.\r\n\r\nI think calligraphy skills such as you
    and the others you list have are an asset, because the tool does things for you
    that you might not otherwise do, which you can then take up and modify in vector
    form.  "
  created: '2011-09-07 18:48:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nonetheless, it takes considerable hand skill to construct a good calligraphic
    font, even if you are not calligrapher per se.\r\n\r\nAfter all, we're all just
    faking punch-cutting, which even fewer of us have tried than calligraphy."
  created: '2011-09-07 18:56:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Totally impossible to answer until you define \u201CCalligraphy\u201D and
    \u201CTypography.\u201D Good luck with that."
  created: '2011-09-07 19:03:29'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "Kinda\r\n\r\nYou can quote me on that.\r\n\r\nAs far as all arts (I use that
    loosely) are concerned, the definitions and exclusions of any field or branch
    are not mutually exclusive and are somewhat context-dependent."
  created: '2011-09-07 19:18:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I consider calligraphy a particular application of a manual skill in writing
    targeted at formal and expressive beauty (as such, it is a sub-category of chirography
    or, simply, 'writing'). I am not a calligrapher, although I understand a lot about
    writing and occasionally make use of the same tools as part of a design process,
    because I do not possess the manual skills required. I'm a type designer, which
    means that I sometimes apply the same conceptual and aesthetic considerations
    in my work as a calligrapher does -- and sometimes different conceptual and aesthetic
    considerations --, but what I am making is a different kind of product, and I
    make it with a different set of skills.
  created: '2011-09-07 19:18:11'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: I defined calligraphy, lettering and typography <a href="http://kupferschrift.de/cms/2010/11/deftypography/">here
    some time ago</a>.
  created: '2011-09-07 19:55:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Indra, you're right to identify another divide between custom lettering,
    where you know which letters are going to sit next to which, and type, where each
    letter may go next to any other letter. That's another divide. \r\n\r\nFor example,
    I saw a Facebook exchange where a famous custom letterer was asked by his friend
    why they didn't ask him to be a speaker at a type design series. He said, \"Possibly
    because I hate type.\" I think he experiences type as a straightjacket that would
    prevent him from realizing his work. He's never done a font.  "
  created: '2011-09-07 21:41:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I am glad that I have had experience in all of those letter generating  paths.
    I do not think it is unusual for designers of my generation to have studied or
    worked in all these areas.  The younger practitioners are less likely to, yes,
    but they make their own way to some result anyway. It is not so important that
    everyone study in the same way with the same tools; as long as the mind is processing
    whatever interaction, skill and knowledge will come.
  created: '2011-09-07 22:47:16'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: based on Typography article in Wikipedia. It's written that one of Typography
    scope is calligraphy and handwriting. Well, ?
  created: '2011-09-08 03:45:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'That section of the Wikipedia article is poorly conceived: it suggests that
    virtually anything involving letters constitutes typography, even graffiti. That''s
    just sloppy thinking and a poor understanding of the terminological specificity
    clearly evident elsewhere in the article, e.g. ''the art and technique of arranging
    type''. I don''t know any calligraphers who would be pleased to hear their work
    described as typography, especially not Islamic calligraphers, and I can''t imagine
    graffiti artists would either.'
  created: '2011-09-08 06:23:46'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: Yeah, it's pity to say that graffiti is part of typography. Blackletter is
    part of callygraphy also. But, blackletter included in typography.
  created: '2011-09-09 02:56:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">>That section of the Wikipedia article is poorly conceived<<\r\n\r\nJohn
    is being too kind."
  created: '2011-09-09 05:39:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm with Indra and John.\r\n\r\nAlso, \u201CYeah, it's pity to say that graffiti
    is part of typography. Blackletter is part of callygraphy also. But, blackletter
    included in typography.\u201D\r\n\r\nBlackletter is a style of lettering, which
    can be executed with either type or calligraphy. Calligraphic blackletter and
    blackletter type are still two different things."
  created: '2011-09-11 22:54:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I guess I should wait for Hrant to weigh in so I can go ballistic :-) Chirography
    and all!\r\n\r\nThe real practitioners are making some marvelous points, read
    between the words to see what I think of some of the other posts.\r\n\r\n@ Jeff...
    you need a lot more years to assume so much and make such cut and dry statements.
    So short on so many fronts. Notice I said that politely, people!\r\n\r\nActually
    this is a vast subject with many answers, conflicts, perspectives etc. I cannot
    wait until Wikipedia comes out with a design degree program."
  created: '2011-09-11 23:07:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Rethink the parameters Thomas. \r\n\r\nWould you disallow Caolingian, Chancery,
    Uncial etc forms also?"
  created: '2011-09-11 23:13:29'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sting_5029.png]'
  created: '2011-09-11 23:20:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ William B...  Hermann Zapf, Veljovic, Stone, Slimbach, Werner Schneider,
    Fritz Poppl, Gudrun Zapf, Lipton, Mendoza.\r\n\r\nWilliam, do your research, they
    all had backgrounds with inky fingers... want me to go on with names because I
    could fill this whole comment block???????? I just put down some ones you might
    want to look up for next time. Do you need Hebraic calligraphers also :-)\r\n\r\nAs
    to the Facebook exchange... I am constantly chided by other calligraphers for
    designing \"type\" because the genre I chose \"takes work away from them.\" Now
    that's a hoot. That is why they do not like it. That, and their inability to use
    it (type) appropriately.\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-12 00:08:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, as I said to Nick, I know that many have had some calligraphic skills.
    And I said that I felt it is an advantage. But my impression is that most designers
    of text type today, Matthew Carter being a prime example, aren't masters of calligraphy.
    I didn't say I had done a survey, but that it was my personal impression. You
    are the first one to come on this thread who is a master calligrapher\u2014and
    you do display type, I believe. That's the kind of thing which gives me the impression
    of the situation.  \r\n\r\nIf you have better information, do let us know. Have
    you done the research? What are the results? If not, what is your point? "
  created: '2011-09-12 01:29:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Each of those names listed did not dabble, but were full on inkslingers!
    Tell me that display is less significant than text and I will puke. And you do
    not want me to disclose my thoughts on the \"the most significant type designer
    of the 20th century.\"  I choked on that one. As an aside, he alluded to the fact
    that he could not do it, guess that is why he went to calligraphers to resurrect
    their work, i.e. Snell!\r\n\r\nAnd the names that I gave you are well equipped
    to design text faces (they do and did), in fact better than the new crop of revisionists,
    as their work is distinct! Just because they are not designing variation-on-the-same
    old-theme sans does not lessen their work. I appreciate a thoughtful re-interpretation
    but how many do we need."
  created: '2011-09-12 03:06:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: So you see Adien, it is a complex question littered with land mines loaded
    with ignorance, arrogance, misunderstanding and a lack of respect among the participants.
  created: '2011-09-12 03:29:12'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ William Did you not read the names????????\r\n\r\nP.s.\r\nThere are 21
    aisles (that is 42 sides) in out local grocery store chain. My \"lowly, (titling)
    bottom of the rung\" font, Pooper Black is on every one of those aisles. From
    ice cream to feminine products. Maybe I should stop doing what I do and assume
    my place on the welfare line because I am not making a worthy typographic contribution.\r\n\r\nOne
    \"revisionist family\" and you are \"from whom all blessings flow?\" Huh?\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-09-12 03:31:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, I don't know who you are arguing with, but it's not me. I never
    said that Carter was \"the most significant...\". The purpose of quotes is usually
    to quote somebody, and I didn't write that. \r\n\r\nAnd then there's your idea
    that I think that I'm \"from whom all blessings flow.\" Um, that would be God.
    I may be confused, but one point I'm very clear on, and that's about about my
    not being God. I keep noticing every day that the world, including my world, has
    an alarming habit of doing stuff I don't want to happen. Hell, I'm grateful when
    people give me the time of day. And I didn't disparage any of the people you listed\u2014of
    those whose work I know, I think they're great. I grant you that it's a longer
    list than just Zapf, whom I mentioned, but it's also not the majority of those
    designing text types today.\r\n\r\nAnd I didn't disparage display type in the
    least. And I didn't disrespect anybody, including you, whose work I respect. \r\n\r\nSo
    if you do a survey showing that I'm wrong about the majority of type designers
    working today, fine, I'll be glad to say my impression was mistaken. In the meanwhile,
    if you want to argue with some arrogant, know-it-all projection of everything
    you don't like, fine. Just do me a favor, and don't call it William, or Bill."
  created: '2011-09-12 04:56:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Paper_6418.png]\r\nSomething in common:
    both calligraphy and typography could be considered agents of \"page layout\".\r\nBut
    typography tends to the grid, whereas calligraphy favors a more plastic matrix.\r\nThis
    piece involved a lot of trial and error.\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-12 07:08:35'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "All of those individuals are still practicing except Poppl. They just don't
    run in this circle. Quote was (loose) from US News and World Report. I am less
    concerned about the \"majority\" than I am originality.\r\n\r\nAnd sorry, it was
    the way the statement was framed that got to me, almost like titling fonts are
    the bastard children of type. And Jeff's assumption that calligraphy does not
    have to be read is still p'ing me off this morning. \r\n\r\nWell put Nick (change
    plastic to fluid and I think you have a quote for the ages :-))... and I once
    read that Calligraphy is about fancy, type is about continuity. Reining in the
    fancy is the same for both tho, just less \"fancy\" to pull back in a more staid
    text face. But there is still massive concessions that have to be made about the
    smallest things.\r\n\r\nNo harm, no foul!"
  created: '2011-09-12 12:22:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Rethink the parameters Thomas. Would you disallow Carolingian, Chancery,
    Uncial etc forms also?\"\r\n\r\nDisallow? I'm just saying that letterforms can
    be executed with type or with calligraphy. I think it's true of at least most
    letterforms, just that some or more suited to one or the other mode of expression.
    \r\n\r\nEven calligraphic typefaces, and even ones done with awesome cool OpenType
    contextual whoziss, have to tame and regularize some aspects of the underlying
    calligraphy in the process of becoming a typeface.\r\n\r\nI think that what this
    comes down to is that the definition of typography in my head has as part of it
    that it is done with type. If you prefer a more expansive and all-encompassing
    definition that includes calligraphy, that's fine. I think that regardless of
    what labels we apply, it is handy to both be able to refer to using each form
    separately, and to have a broader concept that includes both. (Letter arts?)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-09-14 23:30:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I still do not get it Thomas. There are hundreds of Blackletter \"typefaces\"
    that suit \"setting\" just fine as opposed to having them done by hand. Many of
    those faces, handled by the informed, can lend great wealth to a typographic page.
    Just because the \"type du jour\" is Sans does not mean that these older \"styles\"
    have to be relegated to some other class system.\r\n\r\nHebrew and Arabic are
    very much calligraphic... would you treat them the same way?"
  created: '2011-09-15 16:55:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Michael, Thomas didn't say anything about relegating blackletter or any other
    style of letter to 'some other class system'. All he did was to point out to Gunarta
    that the classification 'blackletter' is applied to both calligraphic and typographic
    forms, but does not imply that calligraphy and typography are the same thing.
    That seems to me an uncontroversial observation, and I don't understand how or
    why you are trying to make something else out of it.
  created: '2011-09-15 17:53:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '"Would not a Rose by any other name..."'
  created: '2011-09-15 19:29:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Words, when they have commonly understood meanings, facilitate effective communication.
  created: '2011-09-16 02:45:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What John said.\r\n\r\nJust because I think red and orange are usually distinct
    colors does not mean that I believe one of them is inferior. It even allows for
    the possibility that there are some colors which are right on the border....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-09-18 03:29:26'
- author:
    name: jshemtov
  body: I am a new rarebook librarian and I'm new to typography. I have 3 students
    coming in tomorrow and they're looking for examples of bembo, Caslon and Bodoni.
    I will show them the hypnerotomachia polyhpili for bembo (which I believe to be
    correct) and think I have a bodoni example, but I'm having a troubles finding
    a Caslon typeface book. We have lots of mid 18th century americana and english
    bibles. Any recommendations on finding a book or how to find a book that defintely
    uses caslon type?
  created: '2011-09-19 03:21:09'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I am not looking for demons in this one. It just seems that there seems something
    amiss in a statement like:\r\n\r\n\"I think it's true of at least most letterforms,
    just that some or more suited to one or the other mode of expression.\"\r\n\r\nAre
    not most faces/fonts/types based in some shape or form based on hand rendered
    forms. So when translated into digital form are they not type?"
  created: '2011-09-19 03:25:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The revival of the original foundry Caslon in 1844 was in The Diary of Lady
    Willoughby. If you have access to the Gentleman's Magazine in the 18th Century
    that was also in Caslon. The Declaration of Independence was originally printed
    in Caslon, but some characters have been replaced. Most anything published in
    England in the middle 18th century will be in Caslon. The easiest thing to get
    hold of might be the specimen book of 1766 reprinted in Facsimile in the 1980
    journal Printing History, with notes by James Mosley. \r\n\r\nOf course anything
    early in the original letter pressed foundry type will give you the real thing,
    and nothing else is quite the same. That being said, the Mosley book is really
    good. "
  created: '2011-09-19 03:40:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@jshemtov:\r\n<cite>I will show them the hypnerotomachia polyhpili for bembo
    (which I believe to be correct)</cite>\r\n\r\nNot quite.\r\n\r\nBembo is based
    on a later typeface by Aldus, the one used in Pietro Bembo's <em>De Aetna</em>,
    for example. The <em>Hypnerotomachia</em> was an earlier Aldine typeface which
    has been used less frequently as the basis for modern typefaces - Monotype's Poliphilus
    is one of the few revivals of it."
  created: '2011-09-19 07:18:54'
- author:
    name: jshemtov
  body: 'Thank you for comments. Now I need to find a Bembo example. I have the 1791
    Horace, which I believe to be a classic example of Bodoni type. We do have a wonderful
    collection on Horace. Any ideas as finding a Horace with Bembo type? I will show
    either an english bible from the mid-18th century or a gentleman''s magazine from
    the 18th century. '
  created: '2011-09-19 14:41:34'
- author:
    name: jshemtov
  body: My research is showing that Bembo typeface was first introduced by Griffo
    in in 1495, in an essay by the Italian scholar Pietro Bembo. It was then refined
    in 1499 in the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili (page 14, 500 years of printing) If that
    is the case, I am lead to believe that Bembo as a typeface precedes Hypnerotomachia.
    Quadibloc please clarify.
  created: '2011-09-19 15:44:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "And here I thought this was one question so simple that although I'm not
    one of the real experts around here, I could still answer it correctly!\r\n\r\nQuick
    checking shows that my memory indeed appears to be wrong; De Aetna is from 1495,
    Hypnerotomachia Poliphili from 1499.\r\n\r\nAn Atlas of Typeforms describes the
    development of the Aldine types this way: First, there was a typeface in which
    the lowercase resembled Jenson, but the uppercase was made less clashing. Then
    Griffo recut the lowercase - the result being the De Aetna type. And then the
    uppercase was changed again, leading to the type of the Hypnerotomachia.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    in between, a smaller type size was cut, in a slightly different style, for <em>De
    Epidemia</em>."
  created: '2011-09-19 15:59:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Bembo as a typeface precedes Hypnerotomachia</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\nI think your dates are right, but the pedant in me cringes a bit at the language
    of this assertion, since \"Bembo\" the name for a typeface is really a 1929 invention
    of the Monotype Corporation. It's more precise (if a little unwieldy) to say this
    as \"the typeface on which Bembo was based precedes Hypnerotomachia.\" "
  created: '2011-09-19 16:00:05'
- author:
    name: jshemtov
  body: Yes, that's true. Monotype Bembo (1929) is derived from Aldus's De Aetna,
    while Monotype Poliphilus is derived from the Hypnerotomachia.
  created: '2011-09-19 16:53:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Correct. So, if the students are truly looking for examples of <em>Bembo</em>,
    then you really want to find books from the early 20th century (of which there
    are plenty of examples).\r\n\r\nIf, instead, they are looking for examples of
    the types used by Aldus, cut by Francesco Griffo, and which served as models for
    the 20th-century Bembo \u2014 then yes, you want to pull copies of <em>De Aetna</em>
    and <em>Hypnerotomachia</em>.\r\n\r\nThis seems like an opportunity for them to
    clarify and possibly be educated."
  created: '2011-09-19 19:04:19'
- author:
    name: etahchen
  body: "\"Is Calligraphy a branch of Typography?\"\r\nNo. How would calligraphy be
    something branching out of typography, when calligraphy came first in history."
  created: '2012-10-14 13:51:32'
- author:
    name: etahchen
  body: doesn't calligraphy seem closer to art, and typography closer to design? Seems
    like they not trying to head in the same direction.
  created: '2012-10-14 14:00:29'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "\"Is Calligraphy a branch of Typography?\"\r\n\r\nThat's like asking whether
    handwriting is a branch of typography. There are typefaces that emulate calligraphy,
    just as there are typefaces that emulate the appearance of tire tracks. Automobiles
    aren't a branch of typography, either."
  created: '2012-10-18 23:31:18'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "Here's some food for thought:\r\n\r\nOne of my family members is an engineer.
    When I was younger, I used to browse through his reference books. One of them
    was a book on making engineering drawings. This was from the days before everything
    was done on a computer. The book had a whole chapter on lettering. It was <em>very</em>
    specific about what style of lettering was to be used. It even did the whole grid-circles-and-ovals
    thing.\r\n\r\nIt was essentially a typeface intended to be produced by hand.\r\n\r\nMy
    guess is that this discussion is not so much about the nature of a thing, as about
    the definition of a word: the word \"typography\", and maybe also the word \"calligraphy\".
    If typography is by definition strictly about letterforms produced by machine,
    and calligraphy strictly about letterforms produced by hand, then the answer to
    the original question is self-evident.\r\n\r\nHere's some more food for thought:\r\n\r\nI
    read somewhere that the traditional method for producing a Japanese font was for
    a calligrapher to write each character separately, and these handwritten characters
    (calligraphy) would <em>become</em> the font (typography).\r\n\r\nOkay, maybe
    it's not so self-evident..."
  created: '2012-10-20 13:54:35'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@dumpling &ndash; There are several official standards for lettering in technical
    drawings. [[http://www.peter-wiegel.de/Fonts.html|CAT Design]] has some fonts
    based on East German TGL documents.'
  created: '2012-10-20 14:50:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Leroy
  created: '2012-10-20 16:11:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'Typography is a branch of calligraphy: the art of composing beautiful texts
    using specialised tools.'
  created: '2012-11-08 10:27:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: That seems way too broad a definition of calligraphy. Isn't InDesign a specialized
    tool?
  created: '2012-11-08 14:07:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Riccardo, that's just crazy talk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-08 14:52:44'
- author:
    name: etahchen
  body: 'Typography has advanced so much in it''s own direction, and calligraphy in
    it''s own other direction, that they''re not even in the same dimension anymore.
    this is like saying graffiti is a branch of typography, it''d be silly. '
  created: '2012-11-08 22:25:45'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: Unlike calligraphy, typography is assembly and arrangement of prefabricated
    elements.
  created: '2012-11-09 01:34:57'
- author:
    name: etahchen
  body: maybe the thread should be called "Is type design a branch of calligraphy"
  created: '2012-11-09 01:43:37'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "\"<a href=\"http://www.peter-wiegel.de/Fonts.html\">CAT Design</a> has some
    fonts based on East German TGL documents.\"\r\n\r\nYowsa! Another hideous website
    maintained by a type designer.\r\n\r\nI am very much interested in the books where
    the assembly of these faces are described though.  Could you name a few titles?"
  created: '2012-11-09 01:53:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "While it is true that type design should not limit itself to what can be
    achieved by traditional calligraphy, in one respect type design and calligraphy
    are inextricably connected.\r\n\r\nThe basic letterforms - or the characters,
    in a non-alphabetic writing system - are limited to what can be written by hand.
    A \"writing system\" composed of a repertoire of characters so complicated that
    they could only be uttered by a phototypesetter or a laser printer - which is
    the case for <em>some typefaces</em>, of course, but that is a property of the
    specific typeface and not of the basic character repertoire - would be of significantly
    limited utility.\r\n\r\nAnd, thus, since type design translates to a printed form
    characters which were <em>originally designed to be written</em>, it's not surprising
    that writing remains influential."
  created: '2012-11-13 04:41:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"it's not surprising that writing remains influential.\"\r\n\r\nYes, but
    people do so much less writing today and so much more typing that the influence
    now becomes only a historic one. I can see a time in a couple of generations when
    writing by hand will be almost unheard of in all but third world societies.  Handwriting
    will soon be a novelty.  Calligraphy will still survive in the same way that horseback
    riding survives, as an art form or recreation but not as a continuing dominant
    force.  The current generation of youth communicates with one thumb typing on
    a mobile device.  Imagine what the next generation will see?"
  created: '2012-11-13 05:05:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>The basic letterforms - or the characters, in a non-alphabetic
    writing system - are limited to what can be written by hand.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot
    really. Consider this: you can draw a recognizable human face, but how the actual
    face itself looks has nothing to do with drawing. But drawing that realistically
    takes talent, skill and time - and that's the clue here: we should not insist
    that something intended to be read easily also be easy to write.\r\n\r\nIn fact
    theoretically there's nothing stopping us from having two alphabets: one for writing
    (which does have to be legible) and one for reading (which doesn't have to be
    writable in the least).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-13 05:17:21'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> but people do so much less writing today \r\n\r\nYep, the New York Times
    had an article last year which said that many young people have difficulty reading
    cursive writing, since they encounter it so seldom. \r\n\r\n> I can see a time
    in a couple of generations when \r\n> writing by hand will be almost unheard\r\n\r\nI
    think cursive writing will largely disappear (except for artistic/decorative uses),
    but simple block lettering will remain useful for the forseeable future for things
    like writing short notes, making labels, etc.\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-13 06:22:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>That seems way too broad a definition of calligraphy.</blockquote>\r\nIt
    is. It also happens to be etymologically correct.\r\n<blockquote>typography is
    assembly and arrangement of prefabricated elements.</blockquote>\r\nAnd calligraphy
    is assembly and arrangment of predetermined stylistic elements.\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 10:06:24'
date: '2011-09-07 11:25:06'
title: Calligraphy and Typography

---
