---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: ' {The following is the bulk of a post I just made to the TypeDesign <BR>discussion
  list. I thought Typophile would be another good place to <BR>bring this up.} <BR>
  <BR>Over time, and proportionate to the so-called &#34;democratization&#34; <BR>of
  type design, many of us have come to the sad conclusion that <BR>the conventional
  model of &#34;pay-then-get&#34; is not in harmony with <BR>reality in the case of
  fonts: they&#39;re too easy to pirate, highly <BR>undervalued, and most of all there&#39;s
  no real way of trying the <BR>product before you buy it. <BR> <BR>As a result, some
  of us have turned to Shareware, <BR>which in theory should accomodate us very well,
  but <BR>in practice has come to suffer from two major flaws: <BR>1. It&#39;s too
  divergent, covering all kinds of schemes. <BR>2. It has a stigma of cheapness. <BR>
  <BR>So I propose to re-focus the &#34;get-then-pay&#34; model, in order to <BR>re-align
  the Shareware gambit. I call it a gambit because it&#39;s <BR>essentially a trade-off
  between losing some sales to people who <BR>would just buy the font outright &#40;an
  increasingly rare breed&#41; <BR>versus gaining sales from the added access and
  the gifting of <BR>trust to potential customers. This &#34;gifting&#34; is really
  a very <BR>important advantage of Shareware, and can only help increase <BR>sales
  and reduce piracy, because it puts a much higher price <BR>on ethics, and removes
  the threat associated with the conven- <BR>tional model, thus reducing animosity.
  People are much more <BR>likely to be nice to you if you&#39;re nice to them. <BR>
  <BR>First, we need a new name: <BR>I came up with &#34;honorware&#34;. It sounds
  nice, and expensive, <BR>but not exclusionary. And the &#34;honor system&#34; is
  well-known. <BR> <BR>Second, we need to define honorware very tightly in terms of
  <BR>the customer, but very loosely in terms of the seller. This, <BR>because we
  want the customer to know the ethical commitment <BR>clearly, but we don&#39;t want
  to turn away designers: we need <BR>critical mass to bestow respect upon the name
  and concept <BR>of honorware. <BR> <BR>Third, we need to make it seem justifiably
  more pricey than <BR>Shareware. This might seem tricky, but I think if we spin <BR>it
  right it&#39;s really not. <BR> <BR>Now, when you try to think through the implementation
  of honorware, <BR>it&#39;s actually pretty difficult to make it work; I was having
  a lot <BR>of trouble getting the three requirements &#40;priciness, convenience,
  <BR>trust&#41; to harmonize. But through some brainstorming, a &#34;director&#34;
  of <BR>a major font house came up with the breakthrough concept: payment in <BR>installments,
  with the option to cancel. This is a supremely elegant <BR>way of allowing two key
  honorware concepts: accomodating the finan- <BR>cial reality of users; allowing
  users who can&#39;t afford $100 but can <BR>afford $20 to give us the $20, an not
  even feel very guilty. <BR> <BR>So here&#39;s what I have so far: <BR>1. The main
  concept is that the user gets to download a complete <BR>   working copy of the
  font, with no requirement whatsoever of <BR>   paying for simply having it. I think
  even &#42;hinting&#42; that the <BR>   font must be de-installed does more harm
  than good. <BR>2. If the user likes it or uses it, he pays in one of 3 ways: <BR>   all
  at once; over a few weeks; over a few months. If the <BR>   user chooses an installment
  plan, he is reminded to pay <BR>   &#40;or cancel - see below&#41; at each period.
  <BR>3. If the customer stops liking/using it, or for any <BR>   other reason, he
  can cancel, and stop paying. Period. <BR>4. Although we shouldn&#39;t explicitly
  disallow people <BR>   from giving the font to somebody else, we should <BR>   try
  to encourage them to simply refer to the <BR>   original download site instead.
  <BR>5. The EULA is up to the foundry, but gentleness is very <BR>   important: ideally,
  there shouldn&#39;t be any explicit <BR>   legal threats, just implicit ethical
  ones. There&#39;s <BR>   no use smiling if you&#39;re brandishing a baseball bat.
  <BR>6. The post-sales support depends on the foundry, and <BR>   might vary depending
  on partial or full payment. <BR>7. Embedding restrictions are up to the foundry,
  <BR>   but again, it&#39;s better to be nice, especially <BR>   since anybody can
  download the thing anyway. <BR>   You can&#39;t steal a gift. <BR> <BR>Bottom line:
  <BR>Being ethical is much more compelling than being legal, <BR>and we can use this
  to increase sales &#40;and make people <BR>happier as a side benefit&#41;. <BR>
  <BR>What now? Basically, to make this really work, enough of us <BR>have to think
  it&#39;s a good idea, and certain people  have to <BR>hear us thinking it&#39;s
  a good idea, good enough to recruit <BR>us to it, on the ground. <BR> <BR>This is
  a great place to express support for honorware, <BR>or even simply discuss -and
  maybe refine- it. Fire at will. <BR> <BR>hhp '
comments:
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' And the subtle differnce between this and the shareware model is what &#40;ie
    you&#39;re supposed to pay for shareware too&#41;? '
  created: '2001-12-28 00:54:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' You could call it subtle - but it&#39;s still significant. The bottom line
    is that Honorware can bring in more money than Shareware &#40;for the reasons
    above&#41;. <BR> <BR>But you could also say that Shareware is mostly &#34;pay-if-you-use-it&#34;,
    while Honorware is &#34;pay-if-you&#39;re-ethical&#34; with the elaboration that
    ethics is relative; for example, asking a Tanzanian to pay $100 for a font is
    a lot less reasonable than asking a Belgian, and they know it. Also, Honorware
    does not make it illegal to not pay, while Shareware often does. And &#34;often&#34;
    is a key word, because &#42;some&#42; Shareware schemes are indeed effectively
    Honorware, but like I said the model is so divergent that nobody -least of all
    the user- has a clear and consistent idea of what to do. <BR> <BR>So you could
    call it a &#34;rebirth&#34; of the original model, which is needed because Shareware
    is in tatters. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-28 05:45:47'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' Be honest, if someone offers you the chance of trying out a font before
    byuing it, you wouldn&#39;t have to ask a friend if he knows someone that might
    have pulled the font you need from the internet. And you&#39;d be sure you have
    the right version and quality.  <BR>How often did your system crash because of
    bad quality type? <BR> <BR>I think this could be a plausible model. <BR> <BR>Jacques '
  created: '2001-12-29 12:57:39'
- author:
    name: mart
  body: ' Almost all other software is available in demo mode for a trial period,
    so why not fonts?  <BR> <BR>Rant begins here: Quite frankly, I resent the whole
    idea of having to pay, say $40 for a font that I might use for a total of six
    characters - and never ever use again, when for the same price I can buy, say
    a years supply of paper for my printer, or the latest 3D realistic shoot-em-up
    computer game, or a big spindle of CD-R&#39;s, or even a superb set of Rotring
    pens or any number of other $40 items. You might say that I&#39;m comparing apples
    and oranges here, but &#34;it&#39;s the price, stupid&#34;. Not only that, &#34;it&#39;s
    the lack of copy protection, stupid&#34;. Ever since digital type began there
    was never - to my knowledge - any built-in copy protection. The &#34;democratization&#34;
    of graphic design brought about by desktop publishing hard-and-software did not
    seem to alert type vendors to the possibilty of selling to the average computer
    user. Prices remain high to this day and it is no wonder that there are so many
    cheap knock-off fonts and font collections available, not to mention the rampant
    piracy going on. $1000 or more for a complete font library? Give me a break!  <BR>It&#39;s
    a badly broken system, in my opinion. The honorware suggestion: A nice name, but
    if you actually want to increase sales then you don&#39;t complicate the purchasing
    process. Paying over a few weeks or months is pretty ludicrous if you are talking
    about many fonts and various vendors.  <BR>End of rant. <BR> <BR>Sorry I don&#39;t
    have anything positive to say on the subject. I do think the major type vendors
    should be taking the initiative on pricing and marketing plans though. The system
    they all seem to have is not worth emulating down at the scale of the individual
    font designer/vendor. '
  created: '2001-12-29 15:41:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I resent the whole idea of having to pay, say $40 <BR>&#62; for a
    font that I might use for a total of six characters <BR> <BR>Totally. <BR>The
    pay-in-installments method allows you to pay <BR>&#42;something&#42;, while remaining
    legal, and even ethical. <BR> <BR>&#62; if you actually want to increase sales
    then you don&#39;t complicate <BR>&#62; the purchasing process. Paying over a
    few weeks or months is pretty <BR>&#62; ludicrous if you are talking about many
    fonts and various vendors. <BR> <BR>My original idea was pay-what-you-want, and
    I thought that was more straightforward. But then I realized the value of freedom-&#42;from&#42;-choice,
    and more significantly I realized the power of paying by installments not really
    as a way to spread out the payments, but much more as a way to effectively pay
    what you want/can, with some guidance and nudging. Nobody should expect everybody
    to pay the whole amount -or even most of it- all of the time. Adaptability to
    the wishes and circumstances of the user is arguably the most significant thing
    in sales, and it&#39;s something not at all accomodated by the traditional model.
    <BR> <BR>Also: Concerning the possible confusion from having a bunch of concurrent
    &#34;payment plans&#34;, note that the more fonts somebody buys, the more he&#39;s
    likely to go for the &#34;pay all at once&#34; option. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-29 18:15:05'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' Sounds like &#42;stocktype&#42; <BR> <BR>PS. Once had a discussion with
    B.Steinert from Linotype Library about a model in which you pay the use, like
    stock photography.  <BR> <BR>Jacques '
  created: '2001-12-29 20:17:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Well, in a way URW has actually started doing this: <BR><A HREF="http://www.urwpp.de/english/contents/samphead-set.htm"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.urwpp.de/english/contents/samphead-set.htm</A> <BR> <BR>And
    I think it&#39;s wonderful, but it only works for very limited display applications.
    More often users need the font at hand, and there&#39;s no easy way to implement
    that, at least not that I can think of. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2001-12-29 20:57:24'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' Remember the lament of 3IP&#39;s Brian Wilson and others: There&#39;s not
    a lot of honor in the world today. <BR> <BR>A few thoughts:  <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42;
    The cynical view of &#39;this will never work&#39; is probably also the pramatic
    view, based on what we know about the type industry and the &#39;value&#39; &#40;or
    lack of value&#41; people ascribe to type. It is not impossible, but...what&#39;s
    so bad about the current system? &#40;just kidding&#41; <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42; A
    payment plan -- if you proceed with this idea, you might want to rework that phrase
    or perhaps lose this element entirely. A payment plan or &#39;installment plan&#39;
    makes people think of an investment. Type shouldn&#39;t be an investment. I want
    to pay for something once, not three times. Who has time to keep up with installments?
    <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42; I don&#39;t know much about software, but isn&#39;t it possible
    to write a patch of encrypted code that will allow a font to only be installed
    on one computer and not be transferred? There&#39;s got to be an engineer holed
    up at Adobe or someplace that could come up with a method or process to restrict
    multiple copying of a font. Is there any research in this area? <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42;
    I buy a couple fonts per month and $40 is reasonable, to me. It&#39;s a tax deduction
    so that cuts the price dramatically, too. <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42; You have to consider:
    why do people buy type? Most people buy type to make money. If $40 is too much,
    then perhaps you aren&#39;t charging enough for your services. Or, like Joe said
    in a previous discussion, bill your clients.  <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42; Paying for use,
    like stock photography...even more difficult to implement and enforce. <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2001-12-29 21:11:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; The cynical view of &#39;this will never work&#39; is probably also
    the pramatic view <BR> <BR>The question is: Is it worth a shot? <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    claiming that for many -but not all- designers there&#39;s more money in honorware
    than any other model. What&#39;s there to lose? Considering there&#39;s so little
    money in &#34;commercialware&#34; retail fonts anyway, I think the one thing you&#39;re
    actually risking with honorware is credibility/prestige, in terms of the future
    of a type business one might hope to build. <BR> <BR>&#62; A payment plan or &#39;installment
    plan&#39; makes people think of an investment. <BR> <BR>Why? Practically any expensive
    product can be bought through multiple small payments. <BR> <BR>&#62; isn&#39;t
    it possible to write a patch of encrypted code that will allow a font to only
    be installed on one computer and not be transferred? <BR> <BR>I for one happen
    to think it&#39;s very possible. But that&#39;s a whole different ballgame, something
    that type designers per se &#40;except maybe the Dutch Twins&#41; can&#39;t do
    - if &#34;they&#34; do it, great, but what do we do &#42;now&#42;? <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-29 21:38:57'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' Hrant, is this specifically for type that you are creating or is this an
    altruistic endeavor? In other words, what&#39;s in it for you? If nothing is in
    it for you in terms of $, and it&#39;s more to fix something that needs fixed,
    then... <BR> <BR>Remember the lament of hhp: you&#39;re trying to justify the
    time spent on type. To get honorware implemented will require hundreds of hours
    of your time. So to answer your question of, What&#39;s to lose?: just your time.  <BR>
    <BR>So it&#39;s a risk-reward question, and perhaps an exercise in the principles
    of utility and charity.  <BR> <BR>Why not get some feedback from some of the &#39;leaders&#39;
    of the type industry? Without key support from the powers-that-be, your job will
    be that much more difficult. <BR> <BR>bj <BR> <BR> <BR>also: <BR> <BR>   &#62;&#62;
    Why? Practically any expensive product can be bought through multiple small payments.&#62;&#62;
    <BR> <BR>But type is considered by most everyone NOT to be in the category of
    &#39;any expensive product&#39; <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2001-12-29 21:58:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; what&#39;s in it for you? <BR> <BR>I guess two things: money &#40;I&#39;m
    finishing my first Latin text face; I&#39;ve been selling non-Latin fonts for
    many years, but that&#39;s different&#41; and a desire to make the craft healthier.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; To get honorware implemented will require hundreds of hours of
    your time. <BR> <BR>How so? Do you mean like the implementation of e-commerce
    and stuff? I&#39;d never do that myself; I&#39;m hoping some font houses will
    integrate honorware into their existing systems. Certain font houses have considered
    shareware, but like I was explaining, that model&#39;s a mess. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Without key support from the powers-that-be, your job will be that much more difficult.  <BR>
    <BR>Totally. This thing has a much better chance in the hands of marketing pros
    than in mine. The thing is, they&#39;re listening - one of the biggest ones I
    know for a fact. I approached this &#34;big one&#34; last month, and it said &#34;let&#39;s
    see if you can muster up good public support for it&#34;. <BR> <BR>And that&#39;s
    why I&#39;m hoping people who think honoware is a good idea will say so in public.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; But type is considered by most everyone NOT to be in the category
    of &#39;any expensive product&#39; <BR> <BR>You have a point. <BR>But &#42;some&#42;
    people pay a lot of money for good fonts, and it would be a shame to lose that
    money - and this is one way the installment plan makes sense. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-29 22:53:09'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' Can we see the Latin text face that you are building? <BR> <BR>By hundreds
    and hundreds of hours, I guess that&#39;s another way of saying &#39;a lot&#39;
    <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2001-12-29 23:21:20'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Ok, I think that &#34;honourware&#34; is in fact no different to &#34;shareware&#34;,
    just a different name. Most shareware fonts say &#34;pay if you use it commercially&#34;
    and most people don&#39;t. <BR> <BR>My opinion is that many people will only pay
    if you &#34;make&#34; them pay. <BR> <BR>One thing has come out of this thread,
    that is interesting, and has been discussed at a couple of events recently is
    the concept of licencing to users on a limited basis. <BR> <BR>Martin indicates
    he&#39;d just like six glyphs. That unfortunately won&#39;t work very well because
    it&#39;s very difficult to handle fonts with differing numbers of glyphs without
    giving each such font a unique name - a real nighmare support-wise. <BR> <BR>However,
    lots of us think that licences should be tailored to an individual&#39;s needs:
    <BR> <BR>You want a licence &#34;just for you&#34;. <BR> <BR>You want a licence
    for your work group. <BR> <BR>You want a licence that gives you embedding and
    distribution rights within a large organisation. <BR> <BR>You want a licence for
    a document you want to make up right now, but it&#39;s a one-off and you won&#39;t
    need to font again &#40;so how about if the font expires in a month, or six months,
    or whatever?&#41;. <BR> <BR>You need an update for to a font because there are
    new glyphs and/or hinting/kerning changes. <BR> <BR>All the above scenarios are
    a headache, there&#39;s no easy way to get updates to people, there&#39;s no easy
    way to have intelligent fonts that &#34;know&#34; who they belong to and there&#39;s
    no easy way for fonts to expire over time. <BR> <BR>But, let&#39;s imagine there
    were answers to all of these: <BR> <BR>You can buy a font for $5.00, that expires
    in three months and can only be used by you &#40;hey, like a sheet of Letraset&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>You can buy a non-expiring version of the same font, &#34;just for you&#34;,
    for $25.00 - it won&#39;t work on anyone else&#39;s machine &#40;actually tied
    to the user, so you buy a new machine, transfer your licence &#34;tags&#34; and
    it&#39;ll still work&#41;. <BR> <BR>If you want a five user licence, that only
    works for five users, that&#39;ll be $40.00. <BR> <BR>How about a large company,
    that has a corporate font, the licence makes it so that it only works on the company&#39;s
    own LAN/WAN? <BR> <BR>Or, because the font is &#34;smart&#34; and knows who owns
    it, they can go to the foundry site any time and get a replacement or update?
    <BR> <BR>And just maybe, demo fonts that don&#39;t print, but that you can try
    out on screen? <BR> <BR>Would this be a model that would appeal to those who buy
    type? '
  created: '2001-12-30 03:44:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Can we see the Latin text face that you are building? <BR> <BR>Sure
    - towards the end of January. <BR> <BR>&#62; Would this be a model that would
    appeal to those who buy type? <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a question before that one:
    <BR>Would this be a model which can be implemented cost-effectively, soon enough
    for us to care? No. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-30 06:31:24'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;Would this be a model which can be implemented <BR>&#62;cost-effectively,
    soon enough for us to care? No. <BR> <BR>That wasn&#39;t the question I asked,
    and you&#39;ll note that I prefaced the whole thing with: <BR> <BR>&#62;But, let&#39;s
    imagine there were answers to all of these: <BR> <BR>ie I disallowed your question
    before you asked it. <BR> <BR>So, in our imagined perfect world &#40;where incidently
    people are still imperfect and won&#39;t pay for fonts unless you make them&#41;,
    are people interested in having the kind of &#34;smart&#34; fonts that I outlined?
    <BR> <BR>The cost of implementation isn&#39;t an issue yet, and it isn&#39;t an
    issue for font purchasers anyway - as long as they get a better service and at
    least some users, who want limited access/functionality, can get it at a price
    that suits them &#40;ie cheaper than $40 to use six chars&#41;. <BR> <BR>As for
    &#34;soon enough for us to care&#34; - if you want it next week, or even next
    year, then no. Take OpenType as an example, the original OT Jam at MS was in 1997,
    nearly five years later and OT still isn&#39;t &#34;mainstream&#34;. What we need
    is a long-term solution, to a long-term problem, not a quick fix. If it doesn&#39;t
    start now we&#39;re just delaying it. '
  created: '2001-12-30 07:44:59'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' One of them is easy Clive. You wrote: <BR> <BR>&#62;Martin indicates he&#39;d
    just like six glyphs.  <BR>&#62;That unfortunately won&#39;t work very well because  <BR>&#62;it&#39;s
    very difficult to handle fonts with  <BR>&#62;differing numbers of glyphs without
    giving each  <BR>&#62;such font a unique name - a real nightmare  <BR>&#62;support-wise.
    <BR> <BR>If I want 6 glyphs, give them to me in an EPS,  <BR>not a font. Keep
    it simple--it&#39;s the outlines I  <BR>need. <BR> <BR>//joe '
  created: '2001-12-30 09:48:06'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'The current font licensing model sucks. &#40;For  <BR>both foundries and
    studios&#41;. Perhaps the  <BR>current model only works for the huge  <BR>foundries
    &#40;Adobe, Bitstream&#41;  who&#39;s whole  <BR>libraries are bought by large
    agencies,  <BR>studios and schools. But there&#39;s got to be <BR>a better model
    for the big foundries as well. <BR> <BR>Hrant&#39;s idea, while a twist on an
    existing idea  <BR>is still interesting but I&#39;d hesitate to offer my  <BR>fonts
    free to just anybody in hopes that a  <BR>fraction of them would pay for it. &#40;Just
    as I&#39;d  <BR>hesitate to offer them as shareware or  <BR>freeware&#41;. Clive&#39;s
    points are equally  <BR>interesting but somehow just as difficult to  <BR>imagine
    in practice for reasons I&#39;ll get to.  <BR> <BR>In general, this problem stems
    from viewing  <BR>font licensing the same way we view  <BR>application software
    licensing. Indeed, it&#39;s only  <BR>the US that is unwilling to provide protection  <BR>for
    fonts UNLESS they&#39;re considered software.  <BR>I believe a much better model
    would be to  <BR>view fonts as a creative asset like photography  <BR>or illustration,
    where rights are based on  <BR>usage and the rules for payment seem more  <BR>clear.
    &#40;With stock photography and illustration  <BR>low res comps are free in exchange
    for your  <BR>name and email address. High res comping  <BR>samples are provided
    for a tenth of the final  <BR>price. Sure you could print your job with the <BR>high
    res comp, but the stock house knows <BR>exactly who you are and what your project
    is.&#41; <BR> <BR>Clive&#39;s thoughts about different license  <BR>schemes for
    different needs is perhaps what  <BR>the industry needs. &#40;And could indeed
    follow  <BR>the more familiar stock photo/illustration  <BR>model.&#41; But I
    think the ones he  <BR>states are way too &#39;user&#39; centric &#40;in the  <BR>&#39;software&#39;
    sense&#41; where it ought to be more  <BR>&#39;project&#39; centric. &#40;&#34;The
    client just ordered  <BR>another round of changes and the font expired  <BR>two
    days ago.&#34; Or, &#34;My machine just  <BR>fatally crashed, and it&#39;s the
    only one with the  <BR>font license!&#34;&#41; <BR> <BR>Consider the project,
    not the number of users.  <BR>Does anyone every need a single user  <BR>license?
    Make it a single &#34;project&#34; license and  <BR>you&#39;re on to something.
    When was the last  <BR>time, in a studio or agency situation, where a  <BR>single
    designer was the ONLY person to  <BR>touch a project. Very rarely would a designer  <BR>ever
    buy fonts for perosnal use &#40;even  <BR>freelancers work on projects with other  <BR>designers.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t keep Frutiger on my hard drive merely  <BR>because I think
    it&#39;s a fine typeface. I keep  <BR>Frutiger on my machine because I need it  <BR>tomorrow
    for a client project. &#40;And the font  <BR>better not expire because you can
    count on  <BR>me archiving the font right alongside my Quark  <BR>files for future
    assurance that whoever needs  <BR>the Quark doc will have the fonts too.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Now consider the following fictitous--but more  <BR>common than we dare
    admit--example. &#40;This  <BR>example concludes in a sort of twist on the  <BR>&#39;honor&#39;
    model: <BR> <BR>Jim is setting a comp using Filosofia Unicase  <BR>for a design
    review with his client. He has no  <BR>idea if the client will approve Filosofia;
    he can  <BR>only hope. He only has Filosofia because  <BR>he &#40;illegally&#41;
    burned it on a CD back in  <BR>his college days. &#40;Raise your hand if you&#39;ve  <BR>ever
    met a college design student without a  <BR>CD full of pirated fonts&#41;. Now
    the comp is  <BR>ready to print and Doug needs Jim to email  <BR>him a copy of
    Filosofia so he can output it on  <BR>the color printer. <BR> <BR>So, now the
    comp is approved and the studio  <BR>buys the font. Then the client&#39;s in-house  <BR>design
    group buys it. Without illegally copying <BR>Filosofia Unicase, would Jim ever
    have used it  <BR>in his comp? My hypothesis is that the  <BR>fonts getting &#39;sold&#39;
    to clients are the ones that  <BR>designers have on hand--whether legally or  <BR>not.
    The end-clients are the drivers of retail  <BR>font purchases. &#40;Like stock
    photography or  <BR>illustration.&#41; If I can&#39;t get a free or cheap comp  <BR>of
    your photo into my design, my client will  <BR>never see it and of course they
    will never buy  <BR>it. &#40;I&#39;m talking stock here, not custom.&#41; What  <BR>graphic
    designer do you know says, &#34;Here&#39;s  <BR>the comp, but imagine it set in
    this cool  <BR>typeface from this specimen book.&#34; <BR> <BR>&#40;This works
    for the BIG foundries because  <BR>most large design houses and ad agencies  <BR>own
    their libraries, Bitstream and Adobe  <BR>especially. These libraries are maintained
    by  <BR>IT folks who know the legal ramifications of  <BR>being caught with pirated
    software on their  <BR>servers.&#41; <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll finish my rant by mentioning
    a recent  <BR>conversation with an influencer at a large font  <BR>house &#40;no,
    it&#39;s not the one you&#39;re thinking&#41;.  <BR>This person suggested the
    idea of distributing  <BR>their vast font library for FREE on CD to  <BR>reputable
    and trustworthy agencies. The idea  <BR>is exactly as I&#39;ve outlined above
    except it would  <BR>make the above scenario legal. When the  <BR>client approves
    the face, you &#40;or they&#41; buy the  <BR>font. This makes that obscure font,
    that you  <BR>would otherwise never buy, available to test on  <BR>that client
    job. <BR> <BR>I was going to say this was &#34;my two cents,&#34; but   <BR>I
    wrote an entire essay. Perhaps that&#39;s what <BR>happens when I go away for
    a week. <BR> <BR>I realize I&#39;m a bit all over the place, trying to  <BR>answer
    both Hrant and Clive and trying to  <BR>introduce another sort of  &#39;honor&#39;
    model to the  <BR>thread. I&#39;ve just had this kicking around in me  <BR>since
    the &#34;making a living&#34; and the &#34;knockoffs  <BR>hurt&#34; threads. Plus
    it&#39;s late. <BR> <BR>//joe'
  created: '2001-12-30 10:36:50'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Joe: <BR>&#62;If I want 6 glyphs, give them to me in an  <BR>&#62;EPS, not
    a font. Keep it simple--it&#39;s the  <BR>&#62;outlines I need. <BR> <BR>You know,
    I say that&#39;s fair enough, and I know people have discussed this very idea
    for five years or more &#40;without coming to a solution&#41;. I also know that
    someone is working on this in a realistic way that will come to fuition. <BR>
    <BR>But as you wrote, that&#39;s not a font, so I kind of think it&#39;s separate
    from this discussion. '
  created: '2001-12-30 16:59:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Clive: <BR>&#62; My opinion is that many people will only pay if you &#34;make&#34;
    them pay. <BR> <BR>The problem of course is that these are the people you simply
    can&#39;t make pay, no matter how angry that makes you. You have to adapt to a
    reduced amount that a few &#42;will&#42; pay, necessarily giving up some of your
    pride in the process. Honorware is about pragmatism. <BR> <BR>&#62; are people
    interested in having the kind of &#34;smart&#34; fonts that I outlined?  <BR>
    <BR>The answer to that is obvious: yes. <BR>The problem is the implementation
    and getting people used to the idea. <BR> <BR>BTW, I think I&#39;m being a lot
    less imaginary than you, because I&#39;m proposing something that can be done
    today, to increase sales. And I&#39;m totally comfortable with more people having
    my fonts without paying for them - those people wouldn&#39;t pay anyway, and at
    least I get access/exposure. <BR> <BR>&#62; What we need is a long-term solution
    <BR> <BR>Agreed. But that&#39;s not the point of this thread. <BR>I of all people
    would never want to limit discussion, but I do think focus is important. It&#39;s
    very easy to start your own separate thread about any long-term solutions &#40;one
    of which I outlined on the OpenType list a long time ago, if you remember, and
    I&#39;ve also brought it up recently on the TypeDesign list as well - nobody seems
    to be interested enough, you should note&#41;, and you can even point to it from
    here. <BR> <BR>&#62; The cost of implementation isn&#39;t an issue yet <BR> <BR>If
    it weren&#39;t, we&#39;d already have it. <BR> <BR>Joe: <BR>&#62; it&#39;s only
    the US that is unwilling to provide protection for fonts UNLESS they&#39;re considered
    software. <BR> <BR>But legal protection is largely ineffective anyway. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    My hypothesis is that the fonts getting &#39;sold&#39; to clients are the ones
    that designers have on hand <BR> <BR>Bingo. <BR> <BR>Clive: <BR>&#62; I know people
    have discussed this very idea for five years or more &#40;without coming to a
    solution&#41; <BR> <BR>Did you read my post about URW? <BR> <BR>&#62; But as you
    wrote, that&#39;s not a font, so I kind of think it&#39;s separate from this discussion.
    <BR> <BR>Right. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-30 18:06:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' One other thing: <BR> <BR>Joe: <BR>&#62; the fonts getting &#39;sold&#39;
    to clients are the ones that designers have on hand <BR> <BR>And the &#34;installment&#34;
    model allows an ethical but not-filthy-rich designer to try the font for a nominal
    amount, and then decide to buy it for real or not. The more I think about it,
    the more I realize this is a very versatile mechanism. &#40;Damn shame it wasn&#39;t
    my idea...&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-30 18:10:44'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Joe: <BR> <BR>&#62;In general, this problem stems from viewing  <BR>&#62;font
    licensing the same way we view  <BR>&#62;application software licensing. Indeed,
    it&#39;s only  <BR>&#62;the US that is unwilling to provide protection  <BR>&#62;for
    fonts UNLESS they&#39;re considered software. <BR> <BR>Actually this isn&#39;t
    quite true. The US does have protection for typefaces as &#34;design&#34;, but
    not via copyright. The US Patent and Trademark Office will register typefaces
    as design patents, and these can form the basis of legal action. Now, you may
    be doubtful as to the number and type of fonts that could qualify for such protection,
    but Adobe has a patent on Adobe Garamond - this was part of the Adobe/Emigre v
    SSI case, in which the Judge stated that design patent of this type was a valid
    form intellectual property protection &#40;although made no judgement in the matter
    as the case was settled on other issues&#41;. <BR> <BR>There are a number of articles
    at Fontzone that reference the SSI case and patent. <BR> <BR>&#62;I believe a
    much better model would be to  <BR>&#62;view fonts as a creative asset like photography  <BR>&#62;or
    illustration, where rights are based on  <BR>&#62;usage and the rules for payment
    seem more  <BR>&#62;clear. <BR> <BR>I tend to think that for fonts this model
    doesn&#39;t quite work. <BR> <BR>&#62;Clive&#39;s thoughts about different license  <BR>&#62;schemes
    for different needs is perhaps what  <BR>&#62;the industry needs. &#40;And could
    indeed follow  <BR>&#62;the more familiar stock photo/illustration  <BR>&#62;model.&#41;
    But I think the ones he  <BR>&#62;states are way too &#39;user&#39; centric &#40;in
    the  <BR>&#62;&#39;software&#39; sense&#41; where it ought to be more  <BR>&#62;&#39;project&#39;
    centric. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think project centric is very practical. What&#39;s
    a project, a single page layout, someone&#39;s entire ad campaign globally, someone&#39;s
    corporate ID work for the next ten years? Users and time are fairly simple things
    to measure. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#40;&#34;The client just ordered  <BR>&#62;another
    round of changes and the font expired  <BR>&#62;two days ago.&#34; <BR> <BR>Then
    just go online and get an update. First thing to realise is that you don&#39;t
    have to buy an expiring licence, and some foundries may not even want to go there.
    The second thing to realise is that the whole model is based around network-centric
    solutions. You should be able to update your licence, get a copy of a corrupted
    or lost font, get a list of the fonts, status and licensing of all the fonts you
    own 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year. <BR> <BR>The weak points being your
    own network connectivity &#40;your problem&#41; and the robustness of the servers/connection
    of the foundry conecerned. <BR> <BR>&#62;Or, &#34;My machine just  <BR>&#62;fatally
    crashed, and it&#39;s the only one with the  <BR>&#62;font license!&#34;&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Well that applies with fonts right now. If you don&#39;t have a back-up
    you&#39;re screwed, and you&#39;re going to have a real hard time trying to get
    free replacements from any foundry. I would imagine that systems would be in place
    to allow you access if you can securely identify yourself. <BR> <BR>&#62;Does
    anyone every need a single user  <BR>&#62;license? <BR> <BR>Yes, I do. <BR> <BR>&#62;Make
    it a single &#34;project&#34; license and  <BR>&#62;you&#39;re on to something.
    <BR> <BR>Then buy a multi-user licence. I can&#39;t quote on specifics but an
    expiring multi-user licence would probably end up cheaper than a permanent single
    user licence. <BR> <BR>If this could be set up and run really efficiently, and
    was pretty much leak-proof &#40;ie people &#42;had&#42; to pay for font licences&#41;,
    then I don&#39;t see why fonts shouldn&#39;t be priced in some cases in the sub
    $2.00 bracket. <BR> <BR>One of the main reasons fonts are priced as they are today
    is the costs associated with sales, ie people filling in bits of paper and answering
    the phone. I think the &#34;Making a living&#34; thread touched on this, big foundry
    sells hundreds of fonts, but designer gets $50.00. It&#39;s not because the big
    foundry stole all the money, but that the money disappeared through the distribution
    system. You can see the practical effect of this when foundries sell complete
    libraries, the cost per font plumets to well under a dollar in some cases, because
    the &#34;people&#34; and distribution costs for selling 3,000 fonts in one hit
    are pretty much the same as selling one font, thus the bulk of the cost is licencing
    fees that go back to the designers &#40;in small amounts still&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62;When
    was the last  <BR>&#62;time, in a studio or agency situation, where a  <BR>&#62;single
    designer was the ONLY person to  <BR>&#62;touch a project. Very rarely would a
    designer  <BR>&#62;ever buy fonts for perosnal use &#40;even  <BR>&#62;freelancers
    work on projects with other  <BR>&#62;designers.&#41;  <BR> <BR>All the time :-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>But of course there are many different usage scenarios, which is why
    tailored licences are appropriate. <BR> <BR>&#62;I don&#39;t keep Frutiger on
    my hard drive merely  <BR>&#62;because I think it&#39;s a fine typeface. I keep  <BR>&#62;Frutiger
    on my machine because I need it  <BR>&#62;tomorrow for a client project. &#40;And
    the font  <BR>&#62;better not expire because you can count on  <BR>&#62;me archiving
    the font right alongside my Quark  <BR>&#62;files for future assurance that whoever
    needs  <BR>&#62;the Quark doc will have the fonts too.&#41; <BR> <BR>There&#39;s
    a trade-off here. Do you buy an expiring licence on the basis that you don&#39;t
    need it past the end of the week, or you might but you&#39;ll deal with that later?
    Or, do you buy a non-expiring licence because you want to make certain that the
    font is there and ready to run in three years time if you need it? <BR> <BR>Your
    decision will be based on the discount you&#39;re getting for an expiring licence
    and whether you have the confidence in the licencing/distribution system to believe
    that you&#39;ll be able to get a replacement for the expiring font at some point
    in the future. <BR> <BR>My take on it is that if I can buy a font for $5.00 rather
    than $30.00, and it expires in a acceptable time frame, then I&#39;m going to
    buy the $5.00 font. The same way I would have bought one sheet of Letraset or
    one line of typesetting rather than multiple copies &#34;just in case&#34;. <BR>
    <BR>If I were going to buy a set of fonts for ongoing use then I&#39;d clearly
    see the value in a non-expiring licence. But where the future usage is undetermined
    I think it&#39;s appropriate to pay for the use I&#39;m going to make. I may end
    up paying more for that font over the longer term by buying several expiring licences,
    but I think again that&#39;s probably an acceptable thing to do &#40;you can buy
    anything in bulk cheaper than one-offs, but that doesn&#39;t mean you buy three
    tonnes of coffee to get a bargain price over the year&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62;Jim
    is setting a comp using Filosofia Unicase  <BR>&#62;for a design review with his
    client. He has no  <BR>&#62;idea if the client will approve Filosofia; he can  <BR>&#62;only
    hope. He only has Filosofia because  <BR>&#62;he &#40;illegally&#41; burned it
    on a CD back in  <BR>&#62;his college days. &#40;Raise your hand if you&#39;ve  <BR>&#62;ever
    met a college design student without a  <BR>&#62;CD full of pirated fonts&#41;.
    Now the comp is  <BR>&#62;ready to print and Doug needs Jim to email  <BR>&#62;him
    a copy of Filosofia so he can output it on  <BR>&#62;the color printer. <BR> <BR>I
    think the issue is that in many cases the pirated versions never get translated
    into legitimate licences. Often designers don&#39;t have a clue about font licencing
    at all, and many of their managers aren&#39;t in a position to deal with the issue
    either. <BR> <BR>&#62;So, now the comp is approved and the studio  <BR>&#62;buys
    the font. Then the client&#39;s in-house  <BR>&#62;design group buys it. ... What  <BR>&#62;graphic
    designer do you know says, &#34;Here&#39;s  <BR>&#62;the comp, but imagine it
    set in this cool  <BR>&#62;typeface from this specimen book.&#34; <BR> <BR>Well,
    realistically, this used to happen all the time. It&#39;s only fairly recently
    that design concepts would be shown to clients as more or less finished artwork.
    A bit of hand rendered headline and some squiggly lines for body type were what
    clients approved - in some enlightened cases they still do. <BR> <BR>However,
    I understand your point. My counter would be that in a &#34;smart&#34; licencing
    system foundries could offer limited res or limited functionality versions of
    fonts as demo versions. That&#39;s essentially what you&#39;re asking for isn&#39;t
    it? <BR> <BR>Bitstream actually had a library like this years ago, supplied to
    designers fairly cheaply, but would only print at 300dpi. When it was sent to
    a bureau they had the high-res versions and it would rip to film ok. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#40;...These
    libraries are maintained by  <BR>&#62;IT folks who know the legal ramifications
    of  <BR>&#62;being caught with pirated software on their  <BR>&#62;servers.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>These servers are run by IT people who may know what a font is or where
    it came from, but their boss says &#34;$7,000 for fonts, do we need to?&#34;.
    In the UK the onus is on the management to deal with these issues where they have
    been informed of the situation by their staff. <BR> <BR>Besides which, only very
    large agencies will have dedicated IT people, most 5-20 person businesses will
    just muck in together to sort problems out as they occur, or contract out maintenance
    to a third party who won&#39;t care about licencing either way. <BR> <BR>&#62;I&#39;ll
    finish my rant by mentioning a recent  <BR>&#62;conversation with an influencer
    at a large font  <BR>&#62;house &#40;no, it&#39;s not the one you&#39;re thinking&#41;.  <BR>&#62;This
    person suggested the idea of distributing  <BR>&#62;their vast font library for
    FREE on CD to  <BR>&#62;reputable and trustworthy agencies. The idea  <BR>&#62;is
    exactly as I&#39;ve outlined above except it would  <BR>&#62;make the above scenario
    legal. When the  <BR>&#62;client approves the face, you &#40;or they&#41; buy
    the  <BR>&#62;font. This makes that obscure font, that you  <BR>&#62;would otherwise
    never buy, available to test on  <BR>&#62;that client job.  <BR> <BR>The thing
    is that &#42;large&#42; agencies will just buy the CD anyway. Designers will just
    use the fonts they find on the servers or on their colleague&#39;s hard disks,
    there&#39;s no way they&#39;re going to go through some reporting system recording
    every time they use a font so that the agency gets a chance to licence it. <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;ve even known designers to &#34;cheat&#34; on the photo stock agencies.
    <BR> <BR>Here&#39;s another &#34;huge&#34; foundry story. A recent discussion
    lead an employee of said foundry to explain that they had pretty much no way of
    tracking the legitimacy of a font licence if they were to examine someone&#39;s
    HD. Because their fonts were distributed in so many different ways by many different
    agents, bought individually, in bundles and licenced en masse. Such was the problem
    that there was additionally no realistic way of offering upgraded licences either.
    <BR> <BR>That&#39;s the kind of mess I want to put a stop to. I want designers
    to know what fonts are licenced to them, explicitly, and for the foundries to
    be able to verify that, both for their own benefit and as a client service. <BR>
    <BR>Being able to get upgrades and replacements in the middle of the night are
    real benefits to font users. '
  created: '2001-12-30 18:17:34'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Hrant: <BR> <BR>&#62;The problem of course is that these are the people
    you simply <BR>&#62;can&#39;t make pay, no matter how angry that makes you. You
    have <BR>&#62;to adapt to a reduced amount that a few &#42;will&#42; pay, necessarily
    <BR>&#62;giving up some of your pride in the process. Honorware is about <BR>&#62;pragmatism.
    <BR> <BR>Well, given the right licencing model and enforcement scheme, those that
    won&#39;t pay won&#39;t play. <BR> <BR>Clive: <BR>&#62;&#62; are people interested
    in having the kind of &#34;smart&#34; fonts that <BR>&#62;I outlined?  <BR> <BR>Hrant:
    <BR>&#62;The answer to that is obvious: yes.  <BR>&#62;The problem is the implementation
    and getting people used to <BR>&#62;the idea. <BR> <BR>That&#39;s the problem,
    yes, but it&#39;s not the question. Implementation isn&#39;t as big a problem
    as people think. Getting people used to the idea is more about selling them the
    benefits, and I think there are many to font buyers. <BR> <BR>&#62;BTW, I think
    I&#39;m being a lot less imaginary than you, because <BR>&#62;I&#39;m proposing
    something that can be done today, to increase <BR>&#62;sales. And I&#39;m totally
    comfortable with more people having my <BR>&#62;fonts without paying for them
    - those people wouldn&#39;t pay <BR>&#62;anyway, and at least I get access/exposure.
    <BR> <BR>What you propsoe is being done today, it&#39;s called shareware and no
    one pays for it. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; What we need is a long-term solution  <BR>
    <BR>&#62;Agreed. But that&#39;s not the point of this thread.  <BR>&#62;I of all
    people would never want to limit discussion, but I do <BR>&#62;think focus is
    important. It&#39;s very easy to start your own <BR>&#62;separate thread about
    any long-term solutions &#40;one of which I <BR>&#62;outlined on the OpenType
    list a long time ago, if you <BR>&#62;remember, and I&#39;ve also brought it up
    recently on the <BR>&#62;TypeDesign list as well - nobody seems to be interested
    <BR>&#62;enough, you should note&#41;, and you can even point to it from <BR>&#62;here.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not on either of those lists. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; The cost of
    implementation isn&#39;t an issue yet  <BR> <BR>&#62;If it weren&#39;t, we&#39;d
    already have it. <BR> <BR>No. We&#39;d already have it if people could accept
    the concept, or even imagine the concept and tell MS/Adobe/Apple what they want
    rather than being told what they&#39;re going to get. <BR> <BR>The reason it hasn&#39;t
    happened is that there are many things to put in place and no one has yet drawn
    up a blueprint. I&#39;ve spoken to many people in &#34;high places&#34; about
    these ideas and the general reaction is: <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2001-12-30 18:36:30'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Hrant: <BR>&#62;And the &#34;installment&#34; model allows an  <BR>&#62;ethical
    but not-filthy-rich <BR>&#62;designer to try the font for a nominal  <BR>&#62;amount,
    and then decide <BR>&#62;to buy it for real or not. <BR> <BR>Forget installment,
    think about cheap fonts and how to get people to use them. Give someone a font
    for a couple of dollars and they&#39;ll use it. If it expires over time they can
    upgrade to a non-expiring verion or buy another cheap expiring one. <BR> <BR>Give
    them free online tools to try a font before they even buy an expiring licence
    and you&#39;re genuinely offering an improved service. '
  created: '2001-12-30 18:41:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Well, given the right licencing model and enforcement scheme, those
    that won&#39;t pay won&#39;t play.  <BR> <BR>But considering the mechanism does
    not exist &#40;and will not exist for a while, if ever&#41;, honorware has validity.
    <BR> <BR>More to the point: I&#39;m a practical person, and  to me selling things
    is also a practical -as opposed to a spiritual- thing. So since I personally have
    no way to enforce usage &#40;and I don&#39;t know very many who do, and those
    who do don&#39;t seem interested in such a scheme&#41;, I try to simply improve
    the situation, hence honorware. <BR> <BR>&#62; What you propsoe is being done
    today, it&#39;s called shareware and no one pays for it.  <BR> <BR>I think re-branding
    it, re-focusing it would get more people to pay, and it might surpass the commercialware
    model &#40;which however isn&#39;t saying much&#41;. I think you either don&#39;t
    have enough faith in users, or piracy bothers you too much for your own good.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; I&#39;m not on either of those lists. <BR> <BR>When I brought up
    my encryption idea on OT you were there. <BR> <BR>&#62; tell MS/Adobe/Apple what
    they want <BR> <BR>I think that&#39;s naive: <BR>Big corporations have no problem
    giving away fonts - it&#39;s &#42;our&#42; problem. <BR> <BR>&#62; How to sell
    it to customers? <BR> <BR>No, that&#39;s a front. <BR>The real question is: &#34;How
    do I convince the stockholders?&#34; <BR> <BR>A big, unseen, part of this problem
    is that -in the end- fonts are essentially owned/distributed by people who care
    nothing about type, they just want more money. <BR> <BR>&#62; I don&#39;t care
    what pirates like them do either way. <BR> <BR>That&#39;s not very objective;
    you have to put aside your emotions. We&#39;re talking about marketing, about
    technology - not morals. <BR> <BR>&#62; Give them free online tools to try a font
    before they even buy an expiring licence and you&#39;re genuinely offering an
    improved service.  <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t. Who is willing and able? Nobody. <BR>So
    what are we left with: accomodating the behavior of users: honorware. <BR> <BR>Being
    a dreamer is good - unless it ends up driving you crazy. For the moment you can&#39;t
    beat piracy, you have to side-step it. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-30 20:53:33'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;&#62; Well, given the right licencing model and enforcement scheme,
    those <BR>&#62;that won&#39;t pay won&#39;t play.  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;But considering
    the mechanism does not exist &#40;and will not exist for a <BR>&#62;while, if
    ever&#41;, <BR> <BR>Oh, for sure it will exist, if not then wave goodbye to entire
    industries and content providers. <BR> <BR>&#62;honorware has validity. <BR> <BR>As
    much as shareware does. I&#39;m not saying it&#39;s not valid, I&#39;m just saying
    it&#39;s no improvement on what&#39;s already there. <BR> <BR>&#62;More to the
    point: I&#39;m a practical person, and to me selling things is also <BR>&#62;a
    practical -as opposed to a spiritual- thing. So since I personally have <BR>&#62;no
    way to enforce usage &#40;and I don&#39;t know very many who do, and those <BR>&#62;who
    do don&#39;t seem interested in such a scheme&#41;, I try to simply improve <BR>&#62;the
    situation, hence honorware. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think it&#39;s going anywhere.
    particularly from a practical point of view. This is a &#34;spiritual&#34; concept
    - I trust in my brother man - and you&#39;re going on about practical considerations?
    <BR> <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;&#62; What you propsoe is being done today, it&#39;s called
    shareware and no <BR>&#62;one pays for it.  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;I think re-branding
    it, re-focusing it would get more people to pay, and it <BR>&#62;might surpass
    the commercialware model &#40;which however isn&#39;t saying <BR>&#62;much&#41;.
    I think you either don&#39;t have enough faith in users, or piracy <BR>&#62;bothers
    you too much for your own good. <BR> <BR>The former. I don&#39;t have faith. <BR>
    <BR>&#62;&#62; I&#39;m not on either of those lists.  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;When
    I brought up my encryption idea on OT you were there. <BR> <BR>And I&#39;m expected
    to remember one of your posts from 2-3 years ago? <BR> <BR>Remember this: <BR>
    <BR>R <BR>G <BR>B <BR> <BR>:-&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; tell MS/Adobe/Apple what
    they want  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;I think that&#39;s naive:  <BR>&#62;Big corporations
    have no problem giving away fonts - it&#39;s &#42;our&#42; problem. <BR> <BR>Apple/MS/Adobe
    may not, but I&#39;m pretty sure Agfa/MT/ITC and Linotype do. Or at least they
    give every impression of such. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; How to sell it to customers?  <BR>&#62;
    <BR>&#62;No, that&#39;s a front.  <BR>&#62;The real question is: &#34;How do I
    convince the stockholders?&#34; <BR> <BR>No, it&#39;s not a front, it must have
    customer benefits to be a practical proposition. The only front to it is that
    one has to convince the marketing dweebs that this is a benefit for them too.
    <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a lack of logic to the things you&#39;re throwing up here,
    on the one hand it&#39;s &#34;not about corporations - it&#39;s grass roots people&#34;,
    then you&#39;re going on about &#34;convincing the stockholders&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#62;A
    big, unseen, part of this problem is that -in the end- fonts are <BR>&#62;essentially
    owned/distributed by people who care nothing about type, <BR>&#62;they just want
    more money. <BR> <BR>I think that you should take a look around, things are changing.
    <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; I don&#39;t care what pirates like them do either way.  <BR>&#62;
    <BR>&#62;That&#39;s not very objective; you have to put aside your emotions. We&#39;re
    <BR>&#62;talking about marketing, about technology - not morals. <BR> <BR>Like
    I wrote, I don&#39;t care what they do, we&#39;re not playing the same game. <BR>
    <BR>&#62;&#62; Give them free online tools to try a font before they even buy
    an <BR>&#62;expiring licence and you&#39;re genuinely offering an improved service.  <BR>&#62;
    <BR>&#62;I can&#39;t. Who is willing and able? Nobody.  <BR>&#62;So what are we
    left with: accomodating the behavior of users: honorware. <BR> <BR>You can&#39;t
    what? <BR> <BR>People are offering such tools now, some of them have been around
    for... since 1994 or so &#40;and at that time it was the best thing on the net&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>&#62;Being a dreamer is good - unless it ends up driving you crazy. For
    the <BR>&#62;moment you can&#39;t beat piracy, you have to side-step it. <BR>
    <BR>I think the only dreamer going crazy is someone who might imagine that &#34;honorware&#34;
    is any different to &#34;shareware&#34;. '
  created: '2001-12-31 02:04:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; if not then wave goodbye to entire industries and content providers.
    <BR> <BR>&#40;I wish I had some ASCII-art of somebody waving...&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;
    I&#39;m pretty sure Agfa/MT/ITC and Linotype do. <BR> <BR>I think there&#39;s
    only one company with the potential to really help type designers: Adobe. But
    the fact that it&#39;s a public company greatly reduces any hope. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Or at least they give every impression of such.  <BR> <BR>Exactly. <BR>Honesty
    in a corporation is like kindness in a stormtrooper. <BR> <BR>&#62; one has to
    convince the marketing dweebs <BR> <BR>Clive, the marketing dweebs know &#42;exactly&#42;
    what they&#39;re doing. They&#39;re not stupid - they&#39;re just not paid to
    care about the craft of type design. <BR> <BR>&#62; on the one hand it&#39;s &#34;not
    about corporations - it&#39;s grass roots people&#34;, then you&#39;re going on
    about &#34;convincing the stockholders&#34;. <BR> <BR>No, my point is that we
    simply can&#39;t convince the stockholders &#91;to implement your &#34;enforcement&#34;&#93;,
    and that&#39;s why we have to fend for ourselves, even if that means scrounging
    for scraps. Having faith in users is our only realistic recourse, as precarious
    as that might seem. <BR> <BR>&#62; things are changing. <BR> <BR>If you mean that
    there are increasingly more small independent foundries, that&#39;s moot: implementing
    the technology to support your &#34;enforcement&#34; requires the participation
    of the big fat corporations. <BR> <BR>And in any case, what you&#39;re proposing
    -if it ever happens- is years away. I never claimed honorware is some panacea
    for all of time - it&#39;s just something that would help many designers make
    more money, &#42;today&#42;. <BR> <BR>&#62; People are offering such tools now
    <BR> <BR>You mean those half-baked online preview mechanisms, like I have on my
    own site? That&#39;s no substitute for real access to the actual font. There&#39;s
    a reason some of the biggest players &#40;like FontBureau and FontFont&#41; don&#39;t
    bother with preview mechanisms. <BR> <BR>Ideally, we need an ATM with encryption
    and dynamic online &#34;reporting&#34;, but that&#39;s not even on anybody&#39;s
    horizon. So realistically what we need &#42;today&#42; is a good alternative to
    traditional commercialware &#40;which is too anti-user&#41; and shareware &#40;which
    is somewhat anti-designer, and a general mess&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#40;I think I&#39;m
    getting some ideas of refinements to the honorware model - let me think offline
    a bit...&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-12-31 02:39:58'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Clive, <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve been mulling over your points about &#34;project&#34;  <BR>vs.
    &#34;user&#34; centric licensing. I have to concede  <BR>that a project centered
    licensing agreement would  <BR>require much more negotiation between the buyer  <BR>and
    the foundry--over issues like the print run,  <BR>scope of usage, shelf-life of
    the piece, et  <BR>cetera--which is prohibitive. <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t imagine
    a foundry doing that much  <BR>haggling over a $49 or even $99 USD font. It  <BR>wouldn&#39;t
    be cost effective. &#40;Rights protected  <BR>stock imagery is typically in the
    $400 to $1000  <BR>USD range and warrant some negotiation over  <BR>price.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>//joe '
  created: '2002-01-02 22:29:46'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Joe, <BR> <BR>Right, and you&#39;ve hit the nail on the head with another
    issue. The point would be to offer cheaper licencing all-round, for at least some
    groups, some may end up paying more. Clearly you must remove the &#34;haggling&#34;
    element or it&#39;s just not worth it - as noted above a large proportion of font
    revenue is eaten by sales and marketing. '
  created: '2002-01-03 00:35:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; The point would be to offer cheaper licencing all-round, for at least
    some groups, some may end up paying more. <BR> <BR>The problem is that the biggest
    factor in how much a given person will/can pay is that person&#39;s circumstances
    &#40;like his salary in Bangalore&#41;. So the ideal sales model would be nimble
    enough to adequately accomodate the user no matter who/where he is - we don&#39;t
    live in Kansas no more. The traditional commercialware model fails miserably in
    the Internet Age, and implementing &#34;enforcement&#34; &#40;forgetting for a
    moment that it&#39;s vaporware anyway&#41; is not necessarily the complete answer,
    or even most of the answer. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-03 02:03:19'
date: '2001-12-27 20:15:25'
title: Honorware

---
