---
author:
  name: eliason
  picture: 109936
body: "It's the talk of ATypi 11 and the Twitterverse, so let's talk about it here.\r\n[[http://doc.robofont.com/|RoboFont]]
  was released last week. It is a new font editor that runs on a Mac. It works with
  the UFO format. I'd love to hear testimonials about what it does and doesn't do,
  what it does better than preexisting tools, and so on."
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I've been using Frederick's UFOstretch tool, and have been very impressed
    with it, so am looking forward to trying RoboFont. My primary workflow, though,
    relies heavily on Windows-only software (VOLT and VTT), so RoboFont will need
    to be very significantly better than Windows FontLab before I'd consider making
    it my primary design tool (and then I'd have to invest in a lot of new hardware,
    because I couldn't face full time type design on a 13" MacBook screen). Where
    I see RoboFont being most useful for me in the immediate future is for making
    edits to sources that are already in UFO format for use with UFOstretch, MetricsMachine,
    Prepolator and Superpolator.
  created: '2011-09-18 19:34:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "What I wonder most about is what the built-in spacing and kerning features
    are like. \r\nI suspect that most beta-testers and early adopters use Metrics
    Machine.  "
  created: '2011-09-18 19:58:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I want to know where the demo version is. I have never used Robofont and
    have not seen it in use in over a year. I have used UFOStretch and that gives
    me confidence that Fred can make a good font editor, but that confidence does
    not compel me to spend \u20AC450 on a program I might not like. I will be choosing
    between Glyphs and Robofont in the coming weeks, and if Fred has a higher price
    and no demo then Georg wins."
  created: '2011-09-18 20:24:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "At present, if you have Metrics Machine installed then RoboFont will automatically
    send your UFO to Metrics Machine for kerning, rather than using the built-in spacing
    tools. Someone has already suggested in the forums that this should be an option
    or preference, rather than default behaviour, which makes sense I think: whenever
    there are two ways to do things, the user should be able to choose which to use,
    even if one is presumed to be more powerful than the other.\r\n\r\nThe built-in
    kerning tool looks fairly basic, but with good group support. It doesn't look
    like it can be set up to work the way I kern in FontLab, with lists of context
    words for each pair. I find trying to kern looking only at pairs or at key letter
    contexts rather than real words unsatisfactory, as real words reveal patterns
    better and make it easy to spot systemic problems in spacing.\r\n\r\n[Like other
    tools, RoboFont makes a distinction between spacing and kerning as activities.
    This reflects how data is stored in the font -- as sidebearings and advanced widths,
    and as adjustments --,  but I remain intrigued by the possibility of a holistic
    approach to spacing that would automatically calculate optimal sidebearings and
    kerning values based on how a designer visually spaced strings.]"
  created: '2011-09-18 20:34:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>compel me to spend \u20AC450 on a program I might not like</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFor
    the record it's [[http://doc.robofont.com/order/|\u20AC400]], but your excellent
    point stands."
  created: '2011-09-18 20:48:19'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: '[Oh, nevermind. What Eliason said.]'
  created: '2011-09-18 20:49:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: As Arty Johnson used to say on Laugh in, "very interestingk"
  created: '2011-09-18 21:14:14'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "A few days ago, I paid my \u20AC400 for Robofont. I don't know much about
    it. I haven't used it yet. Maybe I won't for a few months. Maybe I won't use it
    on release-quality work for a year.  \r\n\r\nThe type-design world is a lot smaller
    than the graphic-design world. The economics of software development are commensurately
    more difficult. For me, that \u20AC400 is not a payment for software that's necessarily
    useful in its current form, but rather a down payment on what Robofont can become.
    If nobody invests in Frederik's work, Frederik will find something else to do
    with his time.\r\n\r\nAlso, that \u20AC400 is indirectly a way of supporting Erik,
    Just, and Tal's work on Robofab and UFO. I get a ton of value from Robofab. I
    paid nothing for it. The fact that Robofont relies heavily on Robofab & UFO gives
    me confidence that it will go somewhere. Maybe I'll turn out to be wrong. But
    I'd hate to see a worthy project die of starvation in its infancy.\r\n\r\nGlyphs
    may be great. I haven't tried it. Maybe I will. But Georg Seifert is a consultant
    for Fontlab, so he has a sponsor for his work. I'll continue to be a paying Fontlab
    customer, so I'm indirectly supporting his work too. It seems inevitable that
    ideas from Glyphs will find their way into FLS. \r\n\r\nIn general, I think that
    fontmaking tools are underpriced, relative to the value any professional type
    designer gets out of them. Frankly, if Fontlab had asked me for that \u20AC400
    a year ago to fund the work on FLS 6, I would've gladly forked it over. \r\n\r\nBefore
    you say \"that's crazy,\" nobody in the design world seems to have a problem shelling
    out to Apple for new laptops and Mac Pros every few years. But mostly, your hardware
    sits around waiting for you to do something. Better productivity is determined
    largely by software quality, not hardware quality. And if no one wants to pay
    for better software, it will never appear."
  created: '2011-09-19 19:50:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Matthew, you are right about the need to support new software development.
    That\u2019s why I have licenses for Superpolator, Prepolator, Metrics Machine,
    Font Remix Tools, and UFOStretch. But I cannot afford to buy everything. And there
    is also a very large market of font software consumers who are not type designers
    and do not see a reason to support new software, and somebody has to reach out
    to them. That is how I started out, and Fontlab had demo versions of everything
    ready for me to start working with."
  created: '2011-09-19 21:25:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I've had the privilege of talking to Frederik Barlaen for a few hours after
    his excellent presentation in Iceland. RoboFont is a solid piece of work. \r\n\r\nMy
    short description of it would be: it focuses on drawing glyphs, and acts as a
    switchboard for UFO-based projects. It also is extensible through Python, so plugins
    can be created.\r\n\r\nRoboFont largely seems to follow a traditional approach
    for designing type: you have a font window, a glyph window, a metrics and kerning
    window. So any user familiar with Fontographer or FontLab Studio will find many
    similar concepts. It does introduce a few novel ideas as well. \r\n\r\nIt currently
    does no hinting and generally is free of any \"auto\" functionality which is design-related.
    So it does have auto save but does not have auto kerning, automatic generation
    of Unicode codepoints from glyph names, automatic creation of composite glyphs
    or automatic building of groups/classes. This seems to be Frederik's deliberate
    choice, as he listed \"no knowledge\" as one of his principles. In his view, as
    it seems, design choices should be left entirely to the designer. (Of course if
    the designer is a coder, he can put his knowledge into Python code as a plugin,
    but Frederik seems not to intend to offer such functionality \"built in\".)\r\n\r\nRoboFont
    can generate OpenType PS .otf and works natively with the XML-based UFO format.
    As far as I understood Frederik, it is a specialized tool which is designed to
    work best within a suite of UFO-based tools such as MetricsMachine, Prepolator
    and Superpolator. Once FontLab Studio adds native support for UFO, RoboFont will
    be able to work hand-in-hand with FLS as well. \r\n\r\nIt is a very welcome addition
    to the set of tools available to type designers. If there's even just one thing
    that it does better than existing solutions, then I believe it's worth supporting.
    \r\n\r\nI'm thrilled that there are people who decide to develop type design applications
    (this was the reason why I joined Fontlab Ltd.: I was amazed that a single developer,
    Yuri Yarmola, spent years to create an application in which I could do all my
    font-related work, an application that I still use every day, sometimes loving
    it and sometimes hating it). \r\n\r\nAs it was said here, the market is quite
    limited, especialky if we count full-time type designers. I think that while products
    such as FontLab Studio are an effort to create a comprehensive solution for type
    design and font mastering, there is also a need for more specialized products
    that address certain aspects. If products from various vendors can interoperate
    seamlessly, then even better. \r\n\r\nUFO is a great example of a format which
    can be used for interoperability. Fontlab Ltd. supported the RoboFab developers
    financially in the past, and we will be improving our support for RoboFab and
    UFO in near future. Immediately after FLS 5.1 is released, we'll continue our
    work on FontLab Studio 6, which will support UFO version 2 directly. \r\n\r\nI'd
    like to thank Frederik and Tal for the fascinating conversations that I had with
    them in Iceland. It's pure pleasure to spend time with smart people who are passionate
    about the software technology of making type. Respect! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-19 22:44:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I've been using Robofont off and on since late in its beta stage and a bit
    more since it was officially released. Altogether not a lot of time, but enough
    to get an impression of it.\r\n\r\nIt's difficult not to compare it to Glyphs,
    which it feels similar to in a lot of ways. In comparison, its UI not as polished
    as Glyphs, but it feels more like the core of a powerful, extendible system of
    tools. Knowing Python (or access to someone who does) seems essential to getting
    the most out of Robofont. I've got some experience with Python, but it's a bit
    daunting to me at this point.\r\n\r\nI've been able to feel my way around Glyphs,
    Robofont seems less intuitive. Trying things sometimes leads to unexpected results,
    and the documentation is a bit sketchy. It does little more than explain how to
    use each feature and tool and could use some editing.\r\n\r\nAs I said, I haven't
    used it a lot yet, but I have generated fonts with it and am happy with the results.
    It feels like the start of a big thing for font makers and I'm committed to learning
    to use it more fully."
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: "Mark,\r\nDo you use glyphs now regularly?  How does it fit in with your
      workflow?  I am looking at both Glyphs and Robofont (which is more expensive).\r\n\r\nAny
      thoughts?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nChris"
    created: '2011-09-26 05:56:35'
  created: '2011-09-19 23:47:20'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I would choose RoboFont if I would use or aim to a UFO-based workflow. Glyphs
    does a lot more to help regular users with the design process and the nasty technical
    details. But that does not mean that Glyphs is just a beginner\u2019s tool that
    would not be suitable for professionals. \r\nBoth offer the great OS X working
    experience, which FontLab\u2019s products don't/can't have at this point. \r\nBut
    don't forget that these are 1.x releases. I expect some healthy competition between
    the two and great improvements in the near future. Which is something I don't
    really expect from Fontlab anymore. I like the FontLab guys and I know they are
    on a rather small budget, but it took SIX years from FontLab Studio 5 to FontLab
    Studio 5.1, which brings nothing more than Lion compatibility and some bug fixes.
    I know there are great plans for FontLab Studio 6, but when i do the math, when
    will this come out? 2017?\r\nI hope Georg and Frederik make a lot of money with
    their tools so they can hire other developers to extend their software and people
    doing good documentations how to use them. "
  created: '2011-09-20 18:12:08'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "Frederik tweeted last night that demo version would be available soon.\r\nLooking
    forward to it. "
  created: '2011-09-21 08:18:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Back to your oars then. '
  created: '2011-09-21 20:58:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Back to your oars then.</cite>\r\n\r\nI can paddle for another week
    or two."
  created: '2011-09-22 01:23:10'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: 'Demo available [[http://doc.robofont.com/order/|now.]] '
  created: '2011-09-23 16:36:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks,Cristobal!
  created: '2011-09-23 20:10:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "So I like RoboFont, but the feature set is very limited. Of course, that
    will not be the case once a lot of extensions have been developed by users. I
    think that most individual users will never have the time to replicate a lot of
    the basic tools found in FontLab Studio, Glyphs, and Illustrator. This brings
    me to my question for RoboFont users:\r\n\r\n<strong>TL;DR:</strong> <em>Do you
    plan to share your RoboFont scripts/extensions? Or will you be holding them back
    as a proprietary advantage over other type designers?</em>"
  created: '2011-09-25 19:03:07'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I've been wondering the same thing.
  created: '2011-09-25 19:10:51'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I'm also curious, because in this [[http://typophile.com/node/82895|thread]]
    David Berlow writes:\r\n<cite>I have moved to Robofont full time for the integration
    it brings to my work as a designer, producer and hinter of full functionality
    fonts for print and web, if that's another clue.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich raises this
    question: How do you truetype hint with RoboFont? Am I missing something very
    crucial here?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-25 21:01:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Goran, I also wondered what David's statement meant, which I guess turns on
    what he means by integration. I can see RoboFont sitting at a nexus of other tools,
    so perhaps that is what he meant.
  created: '2011-09-26 03:23:13'
- author:
    name: benkiel
    picture: 110356
  body: 'Butternick and others interested in directly supporting Robofab: the paypal
    donation button on the homepage of robofab.com goes to fund the work on the development
    of robofab and the UFO spec.'
  created: '2011-09-26 04:06:03'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: RoboFont may lack some of the functionality that other font editors out there
    offer, but for a version 1 release it is remarkably feature rich I think.  Does
    anyone remember InDesign 1.0?
  created: '2011-09-26 07:26:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "TL;DR:?: Do you plan to share your RoboFont scripts/extensions? Or will you
    be holding them back as a proprietary advantage over other type designers?\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not sure which end is in sight for whom, but I\u2019m hoping that there are going
    to be opportunities for type designers, architects, programmers, engineers and
    web developers in this area. \r\n\r\n\u2026as long as Microsoft, Apple and Adobe
    adopt positions as they have and continue to evolve their user agent parenting
    skills \u2014 at lease some hints and some deep and complex font stacks are going
    to be needed;)\r\n\r\n\r\nGS: \"How do you truetype hint with RoboFont? Am I missing
    something very crucial here?\"\r\n\r\nWe were missing both that, a web font format,
    and a letter drawing module for the exiting python-/xml-based environment which
    already contains great spacing tools and tools for developing and managing stylistic
    and optical design spaces.\r\n\r\nWe still are missing a suit of tools which address
    each of the existing, and a couple of new, Truetype tables. \r\n\r\nJH: I can
    see RoboFont sitting at a nexus of other tools, so perhaps that is what he meant.\r\n\r\nThe
    more sitting at the oars the straighter the course?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-26 15:31:59'
- author:
    name: petrvanblokland
  body: "While I am fully aware that from the typedesigner-user's point of view it
    is legitimate to compare FontLab, Glyphs and RoboFont on existing functionality
    and  $\u20AC. But so far in this thread there are some basic issues missing in
    the discussion. \r\nThe comparison is valid if the applications are defined as
    complete out-of-the-box entities. A typedesigner (who does not want to do any
    scripting and has no means of letting someone else do that work), has to deal
    with the available user interface, tool set, feature set and the list of pending
    bugs. This makes the designer victim of the development of applications that are
    often merely production tools and not intended for design iterations, as is the
    case width equivalents for publishing, as Illustrator and InDesign. Being not
    (partly) designer of your own tools puts a designer in a vulnerable position.\r\n\r\nRoboFont
    is <b>not</b> an out-of-the-box application. The fact that Frederik and I and
    others have been advertized as the \u201Cmissing link\u201D means that RF is not
    an application-island, even while its basic functions are great by themselves.
    The application can better be described as another item in the growing set of
    applications that allow to edit/manipulate/produce UFO fonts. The existence of
    and full commitment to the UFO standard guarantees that all UFO applications perform
    specific functions on the same font files, and it also means that they can do
    that simultaneously. This binds them together as one mega-UFO-application with
    already many great functions inside and counting. \r\nThe mere fact that Frederik
    added a basic spacing-kerning editor is therefor a service to novice designers
    who want to start with just one lego-box instead of buying the entire profi-set
    all at once. If you need better then add another UFO app to the family.\r\n\r\nThe
    advantages of building a modular mega-UFO-app are numerous and obvious:\r\n- Spreading
    functions over different modules reduces the need to buy them all at the same
    time, or you can skip the functions you don't need all together. Or can do better
    yourself. Functions can be added over time as they become available.\r\n- Decentralized
    development also means that a group of people (Frederik, Tal, Erik, me, \u2026)
    can work on the functions that they really need and are extremely capable of making
    and maintaining.\r\n- Constructing an open structure like this allows any development,
    competition and new technologies to be added to the overall functionality, without
    the need for the main developer(s) to put it on top of their list. This is very
    different from having one application that can only do most of the functions on
    a average level. And upgrading one function implies upgrading the entire application,
    which often is not attractive.\r\n- The fact that RoboFont is written 100% in
    Python, goes way beyond any speed discussion (besides, btw, that the speed is
    great as it is now). \r\n\r\nTo grasp the advantage of full Python apps needs
    some insight in how object programming is organized. As Frederik did this in the
    proper way for the entire application it allows any(!) user to dive into the deep
    functionality of RoboFont and overwrite/redefine/add functions, even to the core
    of the program, by means of inheriting the existing classes. This way there is
    a total melt between the scripting and the coding of the main application. What
    richer environment for developing your tools do you want? And even if that technology
    is beyond the reach of the average typedesigner: the reason that is can be done,
    it will be done.  Think of a near future with an rfStore, that has lots of free
    nice-to-have scripts and documentation and how-to's, besides commercial available
    scripts and tools as profi-versions of the free ones.\r\nIn the current RF version
    the 4 tabs in the main editor window are actually mini-applications, melted into
    the editor window, each with specific tasks. User scripts can hook into the application
    on the same level, adding more tabs that have full (!) access to the existing
    classes, functions, user-events and dataset of RoboFont. Over time more and more
    documentation will become available how to do this, along with  a number of example
    scripts (which by themselves are useful mini-apps)\r\nWhere RoboFont is only released
    a week ago, already some of the existing UFO-app developers think of making their
    existing applications available as RF-plugin. \r\n\r\nA bit about (any) pricing
    in general and about the \u20AC 400 in specific. It is common knowledge that nowadays
    the production cost is by no means related to the market price of fonts. Exactly
    the same is true for applications. The developer needs to sell a huge amount of
    licenses in order to come anywhere near the investment. And the only way this
    can be done it to cut on (professional) functionality and ignore pending bug lists.
    So, when an application like RoboFont is created, which allows other professionals
    to plugin their knowledge without any boundaries, any price for such a tool should
    be fine (if \u20AC400 \u2013 the equivalent of saving a modest 2 days of work
    in the lifespan of the application \u2013  is a problem, then it's the relevance
    and quality of the design work that is to be questioned, not the price of the
    tool). \r\nMatthew did put it exactly right: it is a down payment, taking a share
    in a future that is likely to come (and in which all users  take part), supporting
    the development of many great additions. It is not the payment for an application
    license.\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-26 17:18:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Does anyone remember InDesign 1.0?\"\r\n\r\nI remember PageMaker 1.0. Illustrator
    1.0, and Quark XPress 1.o in their time. It was a different world then and this
    is a much more vertical market product."
  created: '2011-09-26 17:20:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Chris: I wrote a bit about my experience with Glyphs in the "FontLab vs.
    Glyphs" thread: http://typophile.com/node/77451  It seems more like FontLab or
    Fontographer in its intent compared to RoboFont (i.e., stand-alone solution),
    but it is easy to use it as a component of a UFO-based approach to font development.
    For that matter, FontLab can be, too, although you need helper scripts to get
    things in and out of the UFO. Not as seamless right now, but coming in a future
    version from what I have seen.'
  created: '2011-09-26 18:41:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Mark!
  created: '2011-09-26 19:17:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Petr, thanks for the insightful post. It's all becoming a little more tangible
    (and enticing).
  created: '2011-09-26 19:27:06'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "<cite>I remember PageMaker 1.0. Illustrator 1.0, and Quark XPress 1.o in
    their time. It was a different world then and this is a much more vertical market
    product.</cite>\r\nThat\u2019s not what I meant. InDesign 1.0 was almost impossible
    to use as a professional publishing tool since it lacked many important features
    (such as colour-seperated output). At that time InDesign was highly criticised
    but very soon it caught up."
  created: '2011-09-27 09:00:46'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "Err, a note to Frederik, Tal, Erik and Peter and whoever is involved in RoboFont:
    \r\nYou know, you could also just learn to answer emails from customers who have
    very simple questions, or better yet provide a descent downloadable documentation/manual,
    instead of a lengthy post on Typophile that still doesn't explain how to use the
    program within the so called 'workflow'.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm not talking about illustrating
    typefaces.\r\n\r\nThis notion of expecting type designers to know what UFO is,
    to have experience with coding/scripting and visiting a conference or whatever,
    prior to paying a premium price for a program that doesn't come with the essential
    know-how-to documentation, seems a bit arrogant to me, wouldn't you say? It's
    this tendency to expect and assume that others speak the same \"language\" and
    have the same resources, that bugs me. This attitude is very evident in the initial
    user experience with RoboFont.\r\n\r\nAnd stating that designers that don't know
    or wish to know scripting or coding are in a vulnerable position, is very true,
    and more so in the case of RoboFont. But why should it be? You essentially calling
    such designers \"incomplete\" or \"lacking\". While I could say the same things
    about your program package being incomplete and lacking.\r\n\r\nI'm one of those
    \"incomplete\" type designers who for whatever reason IS interested in knowing
    more and getting into the celestial prophecy that is UFO. To see what news it
    has to offer to my prehistoric design and production workflow, and maybe even
    make me a better person.\r\n\r\nBut first I would like to know how to use the
    damn thing! Not over time, and not by visiting typophile or google.\r\n\r\nSo,
    get off your high horse for a minute, and learn also how to treat those customers
    whom you haven't met in a conference, and maybe just maybe write/offer a manual
    while you're at it.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nAngus Shamal"
  created: '2011-09-27 15:44:19'
- author:
    name: vanblokland
    picture: 110442
  body: "<blockquote>Err, a note to Frederik, Tal, Erik and Peter and whoever is involved
    in RoboFont:\r\nYou know, you could also just learn to answer emails from customers
    who have very simple questions, or better yet provide a descent downloadable documentation/manual,
    instead of a lengthy post on Typophile that still doesn't explain how to use the
    program within the so called 'workflow'.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHey, how about writing
    that friendly email before blowing up on Typophile? I don't think we've ever refused
    a call for help. Dude."
  created: '2011-09-27 15:48:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Angus,\r\nManuals are not a trivial pursuit.  They are time consuming and
    expensive to produce.  I am glad they got their new products out to the type design
    community for comments before they went to the expense and delay a manual would
    cost.  I see it as type designers sharing their tools with the community rather
    than the money grab you seem to see."
  created: '2011-09-27 16:06:17'
- author:
    name: petrvanblokland
  body: "\"But first I would like to know how to use the damn thing! \"?\r\nIt's damn
    simple: how to learn to play violin? Just pick up the damn thing and start playing.
    A lot! And more! \r\nEver heard about someone who learned to play music from a
    manual?\r\nBut no worries, I think it was my first and likely my last contribution
    to this thread.\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-27 16:18:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Angus: I agree with some of what you say about Robofont, but you don''t need
    to know anything about scripting or coding to take advantage of UFO. It''s an
    open font format, so you''re not stuck with using only one program to work on
    your fonts (if that''s a problem, and it definitely can be).'
  created: '2011-09-27 16:27:18'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: '[[http://doc.robofont.com/documentation/]]'
  created: '2011-09-27 16:29:01'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "<cite>Hey, how about writing that friendly email before blowing up on Typophile?
    I don't think we've ever refused a call for help. Dude.</>\r\n\r\nEric, check
    your records \u2014 and by \"your\" I mean the RoboFont website records. More
    specifically emails sent on September 19. If you need the order number, mail me.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I'm not your Dude.\r\n\r\n\r\nChris > as far I know this wasn't a beta-testing
    version I paid for, but an official release. It's basic customer service I'm talking
    about, and I don't think a PDF manual is expecting too much. \r\nAnd please don't
    put words in my mouth, no one accused anyone or anything being \"money-grab\".
    I paid willingly to a promising program/workflow I'm interested to pursue.\r\n\r\n\r\nPeter
    > Again, I'm not talking about drawing type or designing type. Those tools seem
    fairly straight forward as most of the other tools. And I'm not a beginner, but
    just new to RoboFont or UFO etc..\r\n\r\nBut what about OpenType features? Each
    program has it's own slightly different way of scripting them \u2014 which is
    the way of RoboFont?\r\nHow to work with smart sets? where to import standard
    ones from, etc.\r\nHow to implement work with classes?\r\nHow to integrate the
    UFO workflow? maybe with some examples.\r\n..and a bunch of other stuff that seem
    to differ from other programs, like FontLab for example.\r\n\r\nI see your Documentation
    section on the website isn't that far off from a PDF version.. if it also addressed
    more points and included more examples, etc."
  created: '2011-09-27 16:54:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hey, Petr, I hope you will continue to post.  \r\n\r\nAbout the violin analogy.
    There may be a few natural geniuses who learn to play the violin by just picking
    it up. But almost everybody does have a teacher, and instructional books. So the
    fact is that most have do have manuals, and personal instruction, as well as trial
    and error and long practice. It's not \"either-or,\" but \"both-and.\" And every
    single master had a teacher, even if they learned it first by themselves. Louis
    Armstrong learned to play trumpet by ear, but Joe \"King\" Oliver was his mentor,
    mentored him. And Mozart learned from his father, who was a music teacher. \r\n\r\nSo
    IMHO, helping people to use Robofont, both with a manual and interacting here
    with users and modifying it in response will make it far more usable and used.
    The basic fact is that if you get stuck using software, and you don't do code
    yourself, you're screwed unless you can ask somebody how to get unstuck. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying that you have to be the one answering questions, on line, in public,
    but if somebody does, it will make a better product and certainly a more widely
    used one. And whoever does the answering will have to deal with with uncalled
    for and annoying rudeness. That's just the way the internet is. Rude, but amazingly
    useful. "
  created: '2011-09-27 16:58:09'
- author:
    name: petrvanblokland
  body: "Suggested template for a workflow: \r\n\u201CDear Frederik,\r\ni have sent
    you a mail with some questions about the use of RoboFont after my immediate purchase.
    \r\nI guess that you must have drowned completely in mails after the successful
    introduction in Iceland. So I can imagine that an answer takes a bit longer that
    you expected. And I understand that you are not a large company with call centers
    and distribution departments.\r\nHowever, I am very anxious to use this great
    tool, so maybe you know someone else that can help with some initial directions.\r\n\r\nI
    appreciate very much that you have dedicated 2 years of your life building this
    application, which otherwise never would have existed. I am very much aware that
    my contribution to this is only the cost of 2 days of work. Wow. I guess this
    new platform will allow a lot of people to contribute tons of great stuff to the
    type community.\r\n\r\nLooking forward to your response,\r\nYours Etc.\u201D"
  created: '2011-09-27 17:05:32'
- author:
    name: kaibernau
  body: "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRTkCHE1sS4\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso, you may go to
    http://doc.robofont.com/documentation/glossary/ \r\n\r\nSee where it says \"RoboFab\"?
    Click on the text there. Tells you all the basics about RoboFab scripting.\r\n\r\nSee
    where it says \"UFO\"? Click on the text there. Tells you all you'd ever want
    to know about the UFO format. (Sidenote: Who here is yelling at FontLab for not
    providing a detailed public spec of their format?)\r\n\r\n(Edit) Also when you
    direct your browser to http://doc.robofont.com/documentation/views/features-view/
    it will tell you where to find the necessary information about OpenType feature
    scripting. Straight from the horse's mouth, as they say.\r\n\r\n--Kai"
  created: '2011-09-27 18:21:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "> as far I know this wasn't a beta-testing version I paid for, but an official
    release. \"\r\n\r\nThese guys are not Microsoft or Adobe. They are your neighbors
    working from home without a big bank account and guaranteed market share--cut
    them a little slack and give them a chance to grow."
  created: '2011-09-27 18:32:08'
- author:
    name: "H\xF6fe"
    picture: 114757
  body: "[comment by moderator]\r\n\r\nAccount blocked for gross misconduct, unwarranted
    all caps shouting, and too damn many typos fer chrissakes! Friggin' lunatic\u2026\r\n\r\n====================\r\n\r\nITS
    VERY INSULTING TO USERS TO GO TO ARSE TYPE, THIS IS  A BAD NAME FOR A FOUDRY.
    HOW CAN YOU COMPLAIN WHEN YOU ARE ARSE TYPE? ITS A PITY FOR THE CARACTERS OF ALPHABET
    TO BE ASSOCIATED WITH THIS MARKET. SOME ARSE TYPE  IS NOT GREAT DRAWN, LOOKS LIKE
    A COPY OF SOME OLD SWISS FACES EH? \r\n\r\n\r\nI READ HERE AND THERE A SO MANY
    SANS SERIF THIS DAYS, A NEW ONE HAVE TO BE VERY SPEACIAL,YOU MIGHT SAY YOURS IS
    SPEACIAL, BUT PEOPLE LAUGH BECAUSE THEY THINK SPEACIAL NEEDS. WORK ON YOUR COPYING
    EH? ALSO DON FORGET ABOUT THE RENAME OF THIS ARSE FOUDRY. SO BELIEVABLE!\r\n\r\nH"
  created: '2011-09-27 21:16:00'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "A very concise introduction to RoboFab (the Python scripting API which works
    in numerous applications including FontLab, Glyphs and RoboFont): [[http://robofab.com/talks09/printBooklet.html]]
    (It is even printable too!)\r\n\r\nAnd on a slightly related note: the next edition
    of the Robothon conference, scheduled for 8\u20139 March 2012 in Den Haag, will
    be largely dedicated to RoboFont, UFO workflows and the UFO 3.0 spec. See you
    there, Angus?"
  created: '2011-09-27 21:43:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Where will Robothon be held, Paul?
  created: '2011-09-27 21:44:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: :)
  created: '2011-09-27 21:59:28'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite> Where will Robothon be held, Paul?</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> scheduled
    for 8\u20139 March 2012 in Den Haag</cite>"
  created: '2011-09-27 22:04:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: (That's The Hague to us Amerikanen.)
  created: '2011-09-27 22:23:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That is big airfare, too ;-)
  created: '2011-09-27 22:35:39'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "I was pointed back to this thread.. I can see why.\r\n\r\nKai and Paul >
    thanks for the reference links and info! I'll certainly make time for March for
    the next Robothon. [edit] Hopefully I'll be on the same page by then.\r\n\r\nIt's
    probably too late and the damage is done and all that, but I realize I stepped
    on some toes and rubbed on some people the wrong way. For what it's worth, it's
    not the program itself I was aiming at, which on itself reminded of Glyphs' UI
    which I'm very fond of. That's what attracted me to purchase RF in the first place,
    to finally be able to get into the UFO workflow in perhaps a more complete manner.\r\n\r\nIt's
    the fact that I felt a bit lost when first opening and trying out the program,
    with no immediate support document to turn to or never getting answer to my email
    etc, that left me disappointed. Maybe that email got lost in traffic of responses,
    i don't know. Maybe I'm the only one who felt lost opening the program at first.
    Or maybe I should have been better informed before even purchasing it in the first
    place. Maybe maybe maybe. \r\nIn any case, my point was that there might be different
    customers out there, some of which might need a better introduction and maybe
    a guide into a new type of program and workflow."
  created: '2011-09-27 22:49:31'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "Yeah, but with a bit of luck we\u2019ll have a live stream on the website
    too. Just like last time. :)"
  created: '2011-09-27 23:14:20'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "It takes a serious case of unruly behaviour to have me step back up in my
    role of moderator. :^/\r\n\r\nH\xF6fe, your account is blocked until I have had
    the opportunity to discuss your gross misconduct with the powers that be. I tracked
    your previous comments and it's not your first offence. Furthermore, all caps
    littered with typos just screams CRAZY to me. Unless you behave yourself and have
    something constructive to add to Typophile, you are gone the way of the dodo.
    We don't care for your type here.\r\n\r\nAs for Angus, please be careful which
    tone you employ in online communication. Even if you didn't intend it to be, your
    comments came across as rather unpleasant, hence the strong replies.\r\n\r\nLet's
    try to be more courteous with each other and get this discussion back to the high
    standards upheld by Typophile. ;^)"
  created: '2011-09-28 00:22:17'
- author:
    name: typemytype
    picture: 112393
  body: "@ Angus\r\n\r\nFirst of all thanks for buying and supporting further development
    of RoboFont. \r\n\r\nThe tone of your earlier post here is really discouraging
    to give some sort of reply. It is indeed true you can be rude on the internet
    but the nice thing about it that I can also choose not to reply. \r\n\r\nHowever
    the tone also hides the real question: it seems to me you are having difficulties
    with adapting your workflow to a UFO workflow. \r\n\r\nI cannot really help with
    individual workflow issues cause they are different for each designer.\r\n\r\nRoboFont
    is not an app that is designing for you and will never be. RoboFont provides tons
    of opportunities so you could design your design process. \r\n\r\nWriting opentype
    features is briefly documented, like Kai already mentioned. The syntax is the
    same as you are used to in FontLab or when you have FDK workflow.\r\n\r\nSetting
    smart sets is entirely up to the designer. \r\nCreating smart sets:\r\n* drag
    and drop selected glyphs on the smart list\r\n* smart set as a search query, click
    \"save set\" in the search bar\r\n* smart sets as a list of required glyph names,
    see the option button in the smart list pane\r\n\r\nIf you have a bunch of .enc
    files you could import them see http://doc.robofont.com/documentation/preferences/(look
    for character set)\r\n\r\nI would also propose to post your questions in the RoboFont
    \ forums see http://doc.robofont.com/forums/ (as I don't read Typophile)\r\n\r\nyours
    sincerely \r\n"
  created: '2011-09-28 00:48:57'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I feel I must add some spice to this discussion aswell, since I do understand
    Angus in a way here.\r\n\r\nI don't think I've been rude at all to you (and I
    certainly do not hope you feel this post is rude too), but my questions on Twitter
    have also been completely ignored. Not that it seem to matter so much to you,
    but if I made a product and potential buyers asks questions about that product
    on Twitter. I answer those questions as good as I can if I want people to buy
    my product. Simple customer relations, I guess :)\r\n\r\nFor me, the Robofont
    editor was so incredible \xFCberhyped by some of our \u2018Type Celebreties\u2019
    we have in this business and I was very curios of testing it out, but now that
    enthusiasm is sort of gone.\r\n\r\nI'm not a \u2018Type Celebrity\u2019 as those
    you *do* answer on Twitter and retweet, but I produce custom typefaces for some
    of the largest companies in Sweden, and just started my own foundry, so you could
    say I'm a very potential buyer. Add to that the fact that I'm all fed up on the
    bugs in FontLab.\r\n\r\nHmm, to not be misunderstood I feel like I want to end
    this post with something like: Please dont read this with a angry face, I wrote
    it with a happy face :)\r\n\r\nKind Regards from Sweden\r\nG\xF6ran\r\n\r\n- -"
  created: '2011-09-28 08:40:01'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: See, this is how you do it. :^)
  created: '2011-09-28 08:49:50'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "Goran, I think it\u2019s better to ask questions in the forum that Frederik
    mentioned above. On Twitter it\u2019s not easy for other people to chime in on
    a discussion for instance. And neither will people with similar questions be able
    to find such a discussion on Twitter."
  created: '2011-09-28 09:36:17'
- author:
    name: typemytype
    picture: 112393
  body: "Goran,\r\n\r\nI made myself a priority list how to manage user support:\r\n1)
    the beta testers list, a closed group of designers\r\n2) RoboFont forums (I think
    it is better to centralize RoboFont related topics. In case you wonder all the
    new forum topic got a reply from me or others)\r\n3) direct emails (I'm not finished
    reading all the post-ATypi mails yet)\r\n4) conferences\r\n5) phone\r\n6) ...\r\n7)
    sms \r\n8) twitter / facebook / G+\r\n9) typophile / other forums\r\n\r\nI hope
    this makes sense and see you at http://robofont.com/forums/\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-28 10:58:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'I too felt somewhat lost when I started using Robofont, and I was in on some
    of the planning of this module''s development. I think it helps to plan workflow
    in type development based on what tables your are creating. In most activities,
    this makes it more obvious what tools to use, when. If you are familiar with the
    OS/2 table, this may not apply, but when you''re creating a CVT, contours, composites,
    spacing, kerning or hints, guidance from the format helps to organize effort. '
  created: '2011-09-28 13:03:16'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "typemytype >\r\n\r\nI don't know if I have difficulties with adapting my
    workflow to a UFO workflow. I didn't get that far as of yet. It's probably fairly
    easy once I dive into it (at least I hope so).\r\n\r\nI did however have some
    questions regarding the program RoboFont itself, which I stated in my email to
    you about 10 days ago. An email which contained no tone or anger (maybe some confusion),
    just questions. If you only answered me around then as expected \u2014 like my
    customers expect me to answer their emails \u2014 we probably wouldn't have this
    discussion here or on your forum or anywhere else.\r\nBut I see it's been busy,
    so I thank you for your reply now and addressing some of the issues I had.\r\n\r\nSo
    RoboFont is not gonna design for me \u2014 that's always a good start :)\r\nI
    see that it's basically a make-and-build-your-own-settings type of deal. Cool,
    I get it. When time permits, I'll dive further into it and check your website
    for further documentation when needed, or hunt the rest of the components down
    on internet. And if you have some printable detailed documentation in the future,
    would be great to hear about it.\r\n\r\nThank you again for replying, and I wish
    you all the best with the project!\r\n\r\nJust remember you have customers. ;)\r\n\r\nAngus."
  created: '2011-09-28 13:48:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yves,\r\n\"Where is the Beef?\""
  created: '2011-09-29 06:03:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>For me, the Robofont editor was so incredible \xFCberhyped by some
    of our \u2018Type Celebreties\u2019 we have in this business and I was very curios
    of testing it out, but now that enthusiasm is sort of gone.</cite>\r\n\r\nSeconded.
    There is too much enthusiasm for \u201Canything but Fontlab\u201D and not enough
    for a good font outline editor. I don\u2019t care how much potential Robofont
    has to be useful later, I am not paying \u20AC400 for CAD software that does not
    have a function for generating primitive shapes at specified sizes unless I take
    advantage of the privilege of coding it myself. I think I will just move to Glyphs
    now and then see what Robofont can do in year or two. "
  created: '2011-09-29 06:40:57'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>If you only answered me around then as expected \u2014 like my customers
    expect me to answer their emails \u2014 we probably wouldn't have this discussion
    here or on your forum or anywhere else.</em>\r\n\r\nI think Frederik made quite
    clear in his reply above that the amount of emails he currently receives makes
    it hard for him to respond in a timely fashion. He's just one guy with a toddler
    and a newborn working day and night. Maybe it would be more efficient to indeed
    ask your support questions in the forum."
  created: '2011-09-29 07:55:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>I am not paying \u20AC400 for CAD software that does not have a function
    for generating primitive shapes at specified sizes unless I take advantage of
    the privilege of coding it myself.</em>\r\n\r\nI can understand this point of
    view. Why should you need to know how to program to create a font (setting aside
    writing feature code)? On the other hand, as a type designer with some experience
    and interest in programming, I think RoboFont is a very exciting and interesting
    font editor. I certainly like it's Python editor more than the one in FontLab."
  created: '2011-09-29 15:50:15'
- author:
    name: Eli
    picture: 112186
  body: "Shapes tool extension added http://doc.robofont.com/extensions/shapes-tool/\r\nand
    how to install it http://doc.robofont.com/extensions/"
  created: '2011-09-29 16:37:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "While I agree that Angus' attitude isn't the best, I'm sympathetic with his
    desire for some documentation. I don't need a whole manual upfront, but some task
    specific tutorials would be nice. One of the joys of working with some other UFO
    tools, notably Tal Leming's, is that they come with really good documentation
    that enable one of get up and running quickly.\r\n\r\nNote that I'm not talking
    here about scripting help or anything like that, but really basic stuff like the
    outline editing interface. Trying for the first time to integrate Robofont into
    a workflow today -- wanting to edit an outline in one weight to correct a problem
    diagnosed in Prepolator -- I was stymied by the fact that I couldn't figure out
    how to convert a straight line segment into a curve. Maybe there's some typical
    way to do this in Mac drawing tools, but coming from Windows FontLab, I'm at a
    loss how to edit outlines in Robofont. In FontLab, deleting a smooth tangent point
    preserves the curve as closely as possible; in Robofont, the curve is collapsed:
    there seems no way to delete a tangent point without also deleting the control
    handle. This is totally alien to me after 16 years of FontLab, as is the apparent
    inability to shape a curve section by grabbing the middle of it and just moving
    it around. Maybe there are ways to do this in Robofont that I wasn't able to find?\r\n\r\n[<a
    href=\"http://doc.robofont.com/forums/topic/outline-tools-tutorial/\">Query also
    posted to Robofont forum</a>]"
  created: '2011-09-29 21:26:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Hold down the command key to drag-modify a curve. To convert a straight segment
    into a curve, hold down the option (alt) key and drag from one of the nodes on
    either end. I think both of these are in the online documentation. The second
    one, for sure.
  created: '2011-09-29 21:28:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Maybe there's some typical way to do this in Mac drawing tools\"\r\n\r\nI
    have the same problem, John, and I have been using Mac drawing programs for 25
    years.  The sagging bag curve collapse is also like that in AI but you can drag
    curves around or constrain them with shift and option keys.  The thing that sold
    me on FontLab originally was the \"spring out\" curves rather than the over-cooked
    spaghetti thing :-)\r\nFor type design, I think the springiness is essential to
    speed up drawing.\r\n\r\nWhat is confusing to me is that I am never sure if something
    is saved or not.  There are occasions when I don't want to save changes and just
    quit the file but there is never a dialogue which says \"save Changes before closing\""
  created: '2011-09-29 21:54:49'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I wonder if the save behavior is to do with Lion? I'm on Snow Leopard and
    it always asks. Lion has a new auto-save feature--maybe RoboFont is using it?
    (I understand that Glyphs does, and that you can disable it and restore the "classic"
    save behavior if you like.)
  created: '2011-09-29 22:07:06'
- author:
    name: typemytype
    picture: 112393
  body: "He John\r\n\r\nsee http://doc.robofont.com/forums/topic/outline-tools-tutorial/#post-983\r\n\r\nthanks
    for posting it on the RoboFont forums :)"
  created: '2011-09-29 22:09:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, everyone, especially Frederik. I shall sally forth and experiment
    some more.
  created: '2011-09-29 23:54:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>On the other hand, as a type designer with some experience and interest
    in programming, I think RoboFont is a very exciting and interesting font editor.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with you there. I should probably add some context here and note that I
    have twins due to be born in November, so I suddenly have a lot less interest
    in trying to learn another application's Python implementation. But I am sure
    that Erik, Tal, Ben, and others will release some great RoboFont tools in the
    coming years."
  created: '2011-09-30 04:11:55'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: If you are familiar with RoboFab in FontLab then most of your Python scripts
    will also work in RoboFont (and Glyphs). That has been the whole point.
  created: '2011-09-30 13:15:29'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: What are the differences with using RoboFab with RoboFont and using it with
    FontLab? I assume some kinds of FontLab-centric stuff is not going to work, right?
  created: '2011-09-30 15:35:43'
- author:
    name: typemytype
    picture: 112393
  body: "additions to RoboFab in RoboFont: http://doc.robofont.com/documentation/scripting/api/robofab-extras/\r\n\r\nadditions
    to RoboFab in Fontlab: \r\n\r\nfont object\r\nhttp://robofab.com/objects/font.html
    (bottom of the page)\r\n\r\nglyph object\r\nhttp://robofab.com/objects/glyph.html
    (bottom of the page)\r\n\r\nfor a overview of RoboFab object see http://robofab.com/objects/model.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-30 15:51:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Thanks, Frederik.
  created: '2011-09-30 15:59:00'
date: '2011-09-18 16:47:44'
node_type: forum
title: The RoboFont Editor thread

---
