---
author:
  name: shessler
body: "A tricky one, perhaps: What features would be regarded as \"socialist\" or
  \"left-wing\" in a typeface? \r\n\r\nI am here looking beyond the clich\xE9 of old
  russian revolutionary posters with condensed sans-serifs and cryllic-inspired features.
  Are there any contemporary typefaces made today that would be regarded socialist?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: jbtroost
    picture: 123455
  body: "I'd say a bold sans serif in white on red/black will do nicely. No fancy
    ligatures or elegance here...\r\nThere's a left wing party here in The Netherlands
    (SP) having their campaigns in that style.\r\n\r\nJust my 2c.\r\n\r\nCheers, JB"
  created: '2011-10-04 08:19:45'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Yeah, that is a tricky one.
  created: '2011-10-04 08:56:38'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I don't think you can define such features as features of the font. As JB
    suggests, it's more a matter of use and presentation.\r\nOr, if your intent is
    satiric, you could use a font with only left pointing serifs ;-)"
  created: '2011-10-04 10:44:02'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: No Gotham jokes? Fish in a barrel.
  created: '2011-10-04 11:20:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "There are several typefaces available today that were designed at Typo Art
    in the former East Germany. These typefaces were mostly for books, and they did
    try to instil them with \"socialist\" ideas. For instance, the types shouldn't
    to too showy, or take up too much space. In other words, they should allow for
    easy-to-read, economic setting. Look for Karl-Heinz Lange's typefaces at PrimeType,
    or Lapture at JustAnotherFoundry.com. Lapture is Tim Ahrens's revival of Albert
    Kapr's Leipziger-Antiqua. Maxima, from Gerd Wunderlich, is sort of experiencing
    something of a comeback in Berlin and Leipzig, I hear. You can get a digitisation
    of the fonts from URW.\r\n\r\nSearch around for a a few more! Also for the Grafotechnica
    typefaces from the former Czechoslovakia. Some Czechoslovak typefaces from the
    communist era have also been revived, like Tim revived Leipziger Antiqua into
    Lapture."
  created: '2011-10-04 13:58:21'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: Dan, what you mention has *nothing* to do with socialism or socialistic appeal
    of any typefaces. Or miss I something?
  created: '2011-10-04 15:39:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Oh, Andreas, I disagree! The people who made these typefaces thought that
    they were putting socialist features in the typefaces. They said that they were
    doing this, and they wrote it down. They wanted people to know what they were
    doing, why they were doing it \u2026 and they wanted to be viewed in a certain
    light. So, if one is looking for a \"socialist\" typeface, one could consider
    designers' intent as a possible factor in the selection process. Otherwise, I
    don't see how you get away from the kind of clich\xE9s that shessler is trying
    to avoid.\r\n\r\nAs for a \"left wing\" typeface, I have no idea what could make
    a typeface left wing. Although, the suggestion to look at what left-wing politicians
    use in the campaign graphics and literature could be interesting. I doubt much,
    though, that typeface-choice is that clear cut. I think that, in most republics,
    the left and the right wings of a political system probably use the same basic
    pool of typefaces."
  created: '2011-10-04 16:10:32'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: The absolute uniformity of Helvetica was called socialist, but then Paula
    Scher said that was absurd, considering it's the typeface of so many corporations
    (capitalism).
  created: '2011-10-04 16:28:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'A EULA that claims you are entitled to use it provided you pay your taxes. '
  created: '2011-10-04 16:59:24'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Trevor thanks for getting to the point.\r\n\r\nDan R.: <cite>The people who
    made these typefaces thought that they were putting socialist features in the
    typefaces.</cite> \r\n\r\nNo they were not. \r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 They said that
    they were doing this, and they wrote it down.</cite>\r\n\r\nCan you prove this?!\r\n\r\nEven
    IF they were doing so? just an example. I know G. Wunderlich from my student days.
    I know his Maxima typeface. And I know that he, well, was not an opponent to the
    then political system (to say the least). BUT: this is no agreeable reason to
    define a typeface as being \u201Csocialist\u201D or whatsoever.\r\nMaxima is as
    \u201Csocialist\u201D as Univers is \u201Ccapitalist\u201D. This is rediculous."
  created: '2011-10-04 17:55:03'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Gill Sans Condensed was used for signage in former GER. Does this make it
    socialist? I agree with Andreas that it is nearly impossible to attribute such
    a feature to a typeface. And the mimickry of typefaces from the Russian revolutionary
    era definitely aren\u2019t either. I wouldn\u2019t know, for instance, how to
    put a religious feature into a typeface. Accentuating cross elements in letters,
    would that make it a Christian type? No, it would just be a special design treatment.
    But you can\u2019t put belief in a type."
  created: '2011-10-04 19:28:59'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: A typeface can have political connotations, but political features? Maybe
    in the next revision of the OT spec?
  created: '2011-10-04 20:39:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Andreas, are Kapr's late-1970s \xC4sthetik der Schriftkunst and early 1980s
    book of collected essays not enough proof? I could look for more, if you want.
    I think that his writing is fabulous, but he has a clear bias, and writes repeatedly
    about a socialist program of book design, and also typefaces. There was also a
    (half-hearted) effort across several Eastern block countries to establish a complete
    suite of typefaces for all text applications, into which Maxima and Leipziger
    Antiqua both fit (and rather well at that, too!)."
  created: '2011-10-04 21:33:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Dan, wasn''t there a recent ATypI talk on this subject?  ;-) '
  created: '2011-10-04 23:08:54'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Computer Modern, or anything released under GPL might be viewed as 'socialist',
    but this is a licensing feature rather than a design feature.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-10-04 23:37:24'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Without specifically referencing socialist realism or constructivist art
    or the hammer and sickle (\u262D) an A is an A, a B is a B. It'll take content
    to make it either Commie or wing-nut.\r\n\r\nmy 2 cents.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2011-10-05 03:20:27'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'Road sign fonts: designed for the public good with tax money.'
  created: '2011-10-05 03:41:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I think to talk sensibly about the issue you need to distinguish between
    what inspired some work, and what qualities it has to the reader who doesn''t
    know the story behind a design. All kinds of political ideas have influenced people,
    but in the end a typeface can at most convey a mood or feeling, not a political
    philosophy. By cultural association it can be more political, but that isn''t
    inherent in the design. Personally I find the innocence of type one of its charms. '
  created: '2011-10-05 04:58:22'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "@ Dan: Albert Kapr was a communist, already during the third Reich. So it
    is hardly surprising that he incorporated thoughts of the sort into his writings.
    But his typefaces (and other designs) show just excellent workmanship and the
    taste of the time. There is nothing socialist about it even if he would have claimed
    that it be so. \r\nThe propaganda can hardly be the relevant reference. Under
    the Nazis every rolling wheel was a an approach towards the endsieg, under the
    Kozis every letter standing upright was a contribution to the final weltrevolution.
    Do we care?\r\n \r\nFor Kapr\u2019s works see [[http://www.google.com/search?q=Albert+Kapr&hl=en&client=firefox-a&hs=rlh&rls=org.mozilla:de:official&prmd=imvnso&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=EwqMTuOrH4fRhAfs5cjYAw&ved=0CFwQsAQ&biw=1626&bih=865|here]]"
  created: '2011-10-05 08:53:57'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "The Nazis incorporated Futura into their corporate identity (after they realized
    that they are failing to be modern with blackletters), which caused Paul Renner
    stomach-ache, but Futura did withstand this ideology and was never thereafter
    connected with the Third Reich again. It became very popular again in the 1980\u2019s.\r\nSo,
    like William said: type is fairly innocent."
  created: '2011-10-05 10:00:50'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Things are very complicated. As we are designers, our task is (at least trying)
    to create better solutions. So we should be conscious of broad complexity of certain
    problems.\r\n\r\nFirst, let's notice, that speaking in language of economy, the
    systems installed in the countries of the Eastern Block were nothing else than
    a variety of capitalism, called the state capitalism. (Yoy can agree or disagree,
    but the above statement isn't important). That slowly lead the economy to ruin,
    and was - as long as possible - maintained by violence. However there is no denying
    that these countries maintained some elements of socialism, like free education,
    healthcare, social security, space planning, etc.\r\n\r\nThese so-called \"achievements
    of socialism\" are not obvious, however. Particularly looking at the example of
    Germany, where after the unification, some solutions were found to be quiet compatible.
    In contrast to East Germany, Poland found itself in a difficult geopolitical situation,
    with the advent of market economy, and today we are dealing with a deliberate
    and progressive destruction of those (after all-) achievements.\r\n\r\nThis generates
    some kind of nostalgy, which is very similar in forms to German Ostalgie. Probably
    we all miss those anchors of a lucky childhood: symbols of little stability, small
    prosperity, safety. And probably we don't really miss socialism at all, but just
    elements of well designed past. I don't care if athors, illustrators and typesetters
    of my fairytales were socialists. I saved the books, and me and my son use them
    with joy now, because they have been damn good, despite of poor technologies.\r\n\r\nI
    belive, that the connotations of the idea of socialism can be achieved in typography,
    only through appropriate, wisely balanced context. If we're fascinated by lettering
    of propaganda posters, we must be aware that behind the appropriation of avant-garde
    aesthetics stood the terror apparatus.\r\nIf, however, the applied arts of one
    of the former socialist countries inspire us, remember that it is one of the local
    varieties of modernism (or whatever else) - and as such will not be properly read
    everywhere.\r\nThe Cyrillic-like games aren't only clich\xE9, but have literally
    nothing to do with our memories, nor with the topic.\r\n\r\nI cannot point any
    typeface and any formal solution, which could be regarded as \"socialist\", without
    knowing a purpose. I can only write, that (both times for NGO's) once I used Chaparral
    to say \"we are here and we demand respecting rights\" (and it worked), and Museo
    to say \"something is going to change\" (and nothing have changed)."
  created: '2011-10-05 11:37:58'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Any open source font.
  created: '2011-10-05 12:10:34'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Any open source font.</cite>\r\n\r\nHA-HA-Hahaha !!!\r\n\r\ntouch\xE9.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-05 14:35:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '"Socialist" is a term that is used so loosely, and with so many diverse meanings,
    that if you don''t specify what you mean by socialism, any discussion related
    to it is almost sure to be a ball of confusion. '
  created: '2011-10-05 14:57:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Any open source font.</em>\r\n\r\nAs long as it's not too well made."
  created: '2011-10-05 16:26:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Road sign fonts: designed for the public good with tax money.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    first time that was done in the U.S. was back in 1948 when the original Highway
    Gothic Series fonts were developed. Then again in the early 60s with the addition
    of EModified. And in the early 2000s when FHWA developed the horrible lowercase
    additions to Series B, C, and D."
  created: '2011-10-05 19:46:29'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>As long as it's not too well made.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is true. Some of
    the best looking open source fonts are merely autotraced capitalist fonts."
  created: '2011-10-06 05:46:34'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "I believe, that as designers, we are committed to market a good, thoughtful
    products. Not for the same input, but in order to - hopefully - improve the quality
    of our common life. The same principle, I think, also relates to any ideologies
    that we - sometimes unintentionally- redistribute.\r\nI've got used to that, for
    most people, we - the ones dealing with and interested in typography - are harmless
    idiots, and the things that we do are worth the garbage.\r\nThat's unfair from
    our perspective. But I can understand, that from \"their\" point of view, replacing
    \"us\" with a crap, is a step in the business side to understand.\r\nNow, let's
    turn the situation inside-out and see what's wrong with descripting \"socialist
    issue\" as something crappy.\r\nIf we write that a font is \"socialist\" as long
    as it's not too well made, or that it will be clumsy font merely copied from a
    \"capitalist\" product, then we spread the unjust and false belief.\r\nUnjust:
    at first to those people of a good will, tortured and murdered, who insisted to
    us without knowing us, the rights obvious to us right now. \r\nFalse: because
    one can give numerous conterexamples, like fonts included once with the graphics
    program by a Canadian company, that were also stolen and badly executed - and
    yet by the capitalist hands. If we say, that \"socialist\" is something poorly
    made, then after having a look at the lists of top ten richest, most innovative
    and most developed countries, we'll find a bunch of countries with very strong
    social sector there. Let's be objective.\r\nIn fact, this is not the ownership
    of the means of production depends on the quality of products. Spiekermann's work
    for the German government isn't executed worse than the work for VW, which is
    a private company. (And Mr Spiekermann once said, that he prefers to see his fonts
    stolen but well used, than bought and missused. The message is clear, and far
    above the copyright discussion).\r\n\r\nProbably even if we are those, who should
    \"inform\" people, \"help them to understand\", in cases of dealing with such
    broad and unsharp abstractions like capitalism or socialism or whatever else ideology,
    we just need a cliche to communicate..."
  created: '2011-10-06 10:48:52'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>Are there any contemporary typefaces made today that would be regarded
    socialist?</em>\r\n\r\nI'll try again: Any open source font that's not basically
    a copy of a well-known classic font. There are a lot of useful opensource fonts
    to choose from.\r\n\r\nI've seen some open font sites where the majority of original
    fonts are \"so-so\" quality. When they're seen alongside adaptations of Avant
    Garde, Helvetica & Franklin Gothic the contrast is stark. \r\n\r\nOpen Font Library
    is not like this. Most of the fonts are original and they've obviously picked
    some of the best ones. The adaptation of older fonts on http://openfontlibrary.org/
    seems good to me; they look pro.\r\n\r\nI have seen a lot of attractive auto-traced
    classic open source fonts on other open source font sites. With some open source
    font sites where there appears to be a low quality bar, the auto-traced classics
    stand head and shoulders above. That's what I thought Nick meant.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    a crowd-sourced, open source font would best represent socialism. There's kind
    of a similar thing going on there.\r\n\r\nI'm glad you're not using typical Russian
    constructivist fonts. If anything it would lead people to believe socialists are
    incapable of drawing letters without a graph paper and ruler."
  created: '2011-10-06 13:04:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: What I meant was that professionalism is more capitalist than socialist.
  created: '2011-10-06 17:23:46'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Says who? \r\n"
  created: '2011-10-06 21:25:04'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Awww, Nick. Now I have to re-engineer by all my careful back-pedalling.\r\n\r\nI'm
    out."
  created: '2011-10-07 01:03:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Says who? Not Lenin!\r\n\r\nBut with regard to type, as I understand it,
    creative type design ceased during the Soviet regime, because types were considered
    to be capitalist tools of consumerism."
  created: '2011-10-07 03:08:06'
- author:
    name: rrichrs
    picture: 123540
  body: 'Helvetica. Yeah that''ll do. '
  created: '2011-10-07 03:32:47'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@Nick - Only in terms of professionalism as expecting money or other remuneration
    in exchange for your skills. The other type, that of wanting to be "the best whore
    in the whorehouse" is not restricted to any one country or bloc.'
  created: '2011-10-07 15:20:22'
- author:
    name: andrijtype
    picture: 110703
  body: "it is very simple thing:\r\n\r\nin real socialist typeface all letters must
    be <em>equal</em>. and equally ugly. no that ascenders, descenders. best if they
    all looks the same: ie. like comrade H."
  created: '2011-10-07 21:50:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/panoptica/medium-47324/\">These
    guys</a> are all the same height and width.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-07 22:52:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>But with regard to type, as I understand it, creative type design
    ceased during the Soviet regime, because types were considered to be capitalist
    tools of consumerism.</em>\r\n\r\nMy understanding is a bit different, based on
    Maxim Zhukov's account and on the contents of the '<a href=\"http://www.alib.ru/bs.php4?uid=6139b9f31c25adbf31e973598ecc2e1ed91\">big
    grey book of Soviet typography</a>'. Creative type design flourished: what did
    not was manufacturing of type and technological innovation. Foreign technology
    was suspect and importation strictly controlled (ironically, at the same time
    as export <em>to</em> the Soviet Union was limited and controlled from the outside).
    Hence, most of the people we would identify as type designers worked as 'lettering
    artists', and much display 'type' was rendered by hand and photographically reproduced."
  created: '2011-10-07 23:25:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Choosing a typeface to evoke a particular ideology is hardly enough to do
    the job.  Much of the tone is set with how it is used.  You also have to ask what
    aspects of Socialism are you emphasizing?  Is this the early revolutionary writing
    of movement leaders or just a discussion of socialized medicine in long-established
    governments today?\r\n\r\nThe proof is in the pudding, not in just one of the
    ingredients."
  created: '2011-10-08 01:17:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "How about,\r\n\r\nA capitalist font is a collection of beautiful letters.\r\nA
    socialist font is a beautiful collection of letters.\r\n\r\n(to paraphrase)\r\n\r\nFonts
    can not have any intrinsic philosophical or political meaning on their own without
    the obvious references to Constructivist, Socialist Realism and the hammer and
    sickle (\u262D). Fonts are vehicles for messages. Not messages. \r\n\r\nJust my
    3 cents."
  created: '2011-10-08 03:38:26'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: <blockquote>The medium is the message</blockquote>
  created: '2011-10-08 05:38:00'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "<em>Much of the tone is set with how it is used. You also have to ask what
    aspects of Socialism are you emphasizing?</em>\r\nThat's the point. Paraphrasing
    Vignelli, you can write it with Helvetica Extra Bold or Extra Light."
  created: '2011-10-08 13:53:39'
- author:
    name: Andrew Osman
  body: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/12567713@N00/5374356680/Unemployment"><em>Unemployment</em></a>
    by Eric Gill
  created: '2011-10-08 14:09:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Gill was a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributism">distributist</a>,
    not a socialist. Distributism combines Proudhonian anarchism with Catholic social
    teaching (especially the principle of subsidiarity), favouring broadly spread,
    direct ownership of the means of production, contra either centralised state control
    or concentrated capital control.
  created: '2011-10-08 17:07:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If Massimo were setting "The Diary of Anne Franck", would he have chosen Helvetica
    Extra Light or Helvetica Extra Bold?
  created: '2011-10-08 18:10:44'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "There have been very few new typefaces designed in the USSR between 1917
    and late 1980s. Older designs developed mostly by German-Russian type foundries
    were used for decades. They were endlessly recycled and repurposed, and adapted
    for the new typesetting technologies: linecasting, photocomposition, <a href=\"http://paratype.com/pstore/fonts/Literaturnaya.htm\">digital</a>.
    I have no exact numbers (I wonder if they exist) but it feels like, say, 75 per
    cent of Soviet print was set in Romana-like <a href=\"http://vsegost.com/Data/266/26664/3.gif\">Latinskii</a>,
    a.k.a. <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literaturnaya\">Literaturnaya</a>
    [<em>garnitura</em>].\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1901_Berthold_Latinskii_6317.gif]\r\n\r\n<dl><dt><a
    href=\"http://www.thejournalist.org.uk/JanFeb09/L_design.html\">Allen Hutt</a>,
    the renowned British expert in newspaper typography, a communist, and a frequent
    visitor to Moscow, who probably shared the values and the ideals of \u201CBritish
    Typographical Revival\u201D, felt so offended by the ubiquity of Literaturnaya
    in Soviet print of the 1960s that he wrote:</dt></dl>\r\n<dl><dt></dt></dl><dd><em>The
    survival of this De Vinne-style type, from the worst design period of old Imperial
    Germany, in the premier Socialist country in the latter part of the twentieth
    century, is a typographical phenomenon as unique as it is deplorable</em>. (Hutt
    A. \u201CA revolution in Russian typography\u201D. In.: \u201CThe Penrose Survey\u201C.
    <em>The Penrose Annual</em>, Vol. 61. Herbert Spencer, ed. London: Lund, Humphries
    & C\xBA., 1968.)</dd></dl><dl><dt></dt></dl>\r\nThis is why, to a considerable
    degree, Latinskii/Literaturnaya may be regarded at the very least as a first runner-up
    to the crown of \u201CThe Soviet Socialist Type of the Century\u201D.\r\n\r\nAnother
    likely candidate could easily be the type used in the first line of this broadsheet:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pravda_Type_5182.gif]<dl><dt></dt></dl>This
    typeface must have been initially used for the iconic nameplate of <a href=\"http://freetop.ru/img/92/8593b1.jpg\"><em>Pravda</em></a>,
    the organ of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.
    The same typeface was used in the dozens of \u2018lesser <em>Pravdas</em>\u2019:
    <a href=\"http://bialczynski.files.wordpress.com/2009/08/pr-pionerskaja-pravda_06-03-1953_1.jpg\"><em>Pionerskaya
    Pravda</em></a>, <a href=\"http://www.videomax.ru/forum/uploads/8244/pravda.jpg\"><em>Komsomolskaya
    Pravda</em></a>, <a href=\"http://s57.radikal.ru/i157/0811/e6/2e504f9e281b.jpg\"><em>Pravda
    Vostoka</em></a>, <a href=\"http://www.ruslania.com/pictures/big/882.jpg\"><em>Vostochno-Sibirskaya
    Pravda</em></a><a href=\"http://ay.by/data/img/50/004/487/788/lt/0_650_Razeta_Minskaya_Pravda_za_11_kastrichnika_1967g__foto__5000_rub_3319253.jpg\">,
    <em>Minskaya Pravda</em></a>, <a href=\"http://all-gazettes.narod.ru/ru.files/39/2.jpg\"><em>Kaliningradskaya
    Pravda</em></a>, etc. \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://f8.ifotki.info/org/eafccafa198db2ab0b4d2b6d7ab70fd42e8ad485249463.jpg\"><em>Izvestiya</em></a>,
    the second-largest daily of the USSR, also had a title piece in the Art Nouveau
    style\u2026\r\n\r\nCome to think of it, in this part of the world, not only in
    Russia, the Art Nouveau typefaces were often used for the nameplates of newspapers,
    not necessarily Socialist: e.g., <a href=\"http://www.vladimirnedeljkovic.com/press/clanci/politika%2011%2006%202006%20naslovna.jpg\"><em>Politika</em></a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.savonsanomat.fi/multimedia/dynamic/00075/Hesari_75298c.jpg\"><em>Helsingin
    Sanomat</em></a>, <a href=\"http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/9c/Prvn%C3%AD_\u010D%C3%ADslo_RP.gif\"><em>Rud\xE9
    Pr\xE1vo</em></a>, <a href=\"http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/cb/Robotnik_28.10.1931.jpg\"><em>Robotnik</em></a>."
  created: '2011-10-09 01:56:03'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: '<em>As offtopic, while I can''t load the picture: I guess, Vignelli would
    use Garamond or Times and Futura.</em>'
  created: '2011-10-09 10:08:25'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/6_5254.jpg]\r\n...so here you have the
    largest daily newspaper in Poland, an equivalent to Soviet <em>Pravda</em>. Analogous
    to <em>Pravda</em>, which meant \"Truth\", but didn't contain too much truth,
    <em>Trybuna Ludu</em> was the organ of the Central Committee of the Communist
    Party inspite it's name meant <em>Tribune of the People</em>.\r\nThe newspaper
    used to spread in millions, because it was made of a scarce commodity(it was usually
    used as a shim under the boots, wchich was trendy and cool)."
  created: '2011-10-09 10:40:39'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ myself.<cite> A capitalist font is a collection of beautiful letters.\r\nA
    socialist font is a beautiful collection of letters.</cite>\r\n\r\nI should have
    said, \"...\r\nA socialist font is a beautiful collective of letters."
  created: '2011-10-10 15:50:49'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Socialist or not, beautiful or otherwise, there was in fact a typeface called,
    yes, Kolektiv. It was designed by a team (Stanislav Duda, Karel M\xED\u0161ek,
    Josef T\xFDfa), hence the name. Kolektiv was issued by a Prague-based type foundry
    Grafotechna in 1952.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1952_Kolektiv_5771.gif]\r\nAnd
    in case you are curious, yes, there was a Cyrillic version of Kolektiv."
  created: '2011-10-10 18:48:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"And in case you are curious, yes, there was a Cyrillic version of Kolektiv.\"\r\n\r\nLOL,
    Maxim!!! or should I say \"Duh\";-)"
  created: '2011-10-10 20:08:20'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "I AM THE 99\u2030"
  created: '2011-10-11 04:35:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@John: <em>Creative type design flourished: what did not was manufacturing
    of type and technological innovation.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not type design if new
    fonts aren't being made from the designs, if the effort is being applied to lettering.\r\n\r\nHow
    about typositor styles?\r\nSurely it wouldn't have been too much of a technical
    difficulty for the Soviets to manufacture a phototypositor, even though out of
    the loop of more sophisticated Western type technologies."
  created: '2011-10-11 07:05:53'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: Indeed, every technology, developed no matter where, was available and in
    use. There were schools, research institutes, publishing houses and type designers.
    But just around certain centres. The new technologies didn't spread, they were
    controlled in various ways.
  created: '2011-10-11 08:00:28'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Nick, Soviet designers had no direct access to any typesetting equipment.
    You had to have a special security clearance for that; compositors did, not designers.
    The VGC PhotoTypositor never made it to Soviet Union; my first time seeing, and
    operating it was in New York, in 1977. In Moscow there were very few Berthold-built
    Diatypes, and I am not sure if any Staromats and Starsettographs were used\u2014not
    by the designers, that\u2019s for sure. Like Marcin wrote, it was all about control\u2026
    Come on, even the typewriters were all registered, and their font samples kept
    on file. The only photolettering device I knew of, and used (for a modest bribe),
    in mid-1970s belonged to Mosfilm, the largest film studio in the country."
  created: '2011-10-11 19:09:42'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I heard about the typewriter registration. Even in the late 80's it was almost
    impossible get computer printers or fax machines.
  created: '2011-10-12 02:52:22'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "However, they forgot about this: \"Children's practical printing house\".
    It was my favorite toy. I remember my surprise when I noticed that also the adults
    loved it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_4033.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-12 13:18:00'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Looks like a very fun and useful toy. :-| (the straight-face smiley)
  created: '2011-10-12 14:21:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: As a child, I had  similer rubber type tool!  I remember it fondly but have
    not seen it since the early 1950s ;-)
  created: '2011-10-12 16:46:24'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "OMG\u2026 That was a blatant case of unforgivable slovenliness. Someone at
    the S\u0142u\u017Cba Bezpiecze\u0144stwa screwed up real bad. Hope they\u2019ve
    corrected that gaper. What a shame, towarzyszy!"
  created: '2011-10-12 16:57:12'
- author:
    name: andrijtype
    picture: 110703
  body: "pozdraw, Marcin\r\n\r\nit's very cute! \r\n\r\nonly soviet printing toy that
    i have found in my childhood (but i had look for them very intensive) had only
    communist dingbats in case as stars, hammer-stickle and so on. \r\n\r\nyou ask
    me why? because commies always afraid of words, even of child's words."
  created: '2011-10-12 17:03:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I had this:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/wychbury/3199489226/\r\n\r\nI
    also had Meccano, but didn't become an engineer :-)"
  created: '2011-10-12 17:44:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My late Uncle J. Ben Lieberman, who was a printing fanatic and incredibly
    energetic and industrious, was active in the private press movement. He had done
    his PhD on freedom of the press, and was fond of saying that freedom of the press
    meant in the first place the freedom to own a press. He started the American Printing
    History Association, wrote the books <em>Types of Typefaces</em> and <em>Printing
    as a Hobby</em>, printed the preliminary edition of Mac MacGrew's American Metal
    Typefaces, and on and on. He was really tireless. \r\n\r\nOne of his less terrific
    ideas was a hobby printing press for children, something like the box above. Except
    it could use real metal type and printer's ink. However, it didn't ever work that
    well, alas. \r\n\r\nA few years ago I saw a demonstration of the [[http://www.completek-12.com/Ellison-Die-Cut-Videos-s/4448.htm|Ellison]]
    die cutting machine, and saw it as a version of Lieberman's idea that actually
    works well. It does paper cut-outs beautifully, and a lot of elementary schools
    have them. I told the lady that they should adapt it as a press for the kids to
    do printing on, but I don't think they have done anything. Their set up would
    work as a small printing press, as the both roller and press styles develop a
    lot of pressure. I also told them they *had* to do dies of Century Schoolbook
    as one of their cut-out fonts. They had others, not as good. Don't know whether
    they adopted that idea.  "
  created: '2011-10-12 19:40:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nToday's kids have laser printers and inkjet printers so the
    level of interest is greatly reduced from kids of or era.  Besides that,they have
    Skype, iPhone, Gameboy, Playstation, etc...  In our day, we had only marbles and
    sticks ;-)"
  created: '2011-10-12 20:06:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I know Chris, but those laser and inkjet printers just don''t have the romance
    of letter press, with its depth of color and tactile quality. I still think the
    kids would find it fun.  '
  created: '2011-10-12 20:10:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Romance to you and me ,Bill, to them?
  created: '2011-10-12 20:41:52'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Magic.
  created: '2011-10-12 21:03:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'By the way, Lieberman would have been totally delighted with desktop publishing,
    as his passion was for widespread ownership of the ability of people to print.
    Incidentally this is the opposite of socialist as far as printing goes. He thought
    it was crucial to have widespread private ownership of printing, and not to have
    it all in the hands of the government, as in the Soviet Union. And I''ve heard
    that Soros'' giving Xerox machines to Eastern Europe did play a role in the fall
    of regimes, though I don''t know how true that is. In a way the internet has taken
    this same idea further, as everyone can now publish worldwide, electronically.
    And it has had a huge social impact, not least in the Arab spring. '
  created: '2011-10-12 21:24:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bill, I tried to order his book a few months back and they said it is out
    of print.
  created: '2011-10-12 22:13:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, [[http://www.oakknoll.com/results.php?s_ShowPics=1&search_val=Lieberman%2C+J.+Ben&search_fld=All&x=0&y=0|Oak
    Knoll has it]] and other stuff he wrote. It looks like the second edition of <em>Types
    of Typefaces</em> is called <em>Types and Typefaces</em>, and is expanded, and
    was printed by him (the Myriade Press was his). '
  created: '2011-10-12 22:33:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: There seems to be many of the same book with a confusing array different prices.  Which
    one is the most current edition?
  created: '2011-10-12 23:46:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '<em>Types and Typefaces</em> is the title of the revised edition, 1978. The
    different prices are I think because some of them, and maybe all of them, are
    used books and in different conditions. '
  created: '2011-10-13 02:32:19'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "<em>And I've heard that Soros' giving Xerox machines to Eastern Europe did
    play a role in the fall of regimes, though I don't know how true that is.</em>\r\n\r\nXerocopy
    and copy shops appeared in the early 90s, after the transfer of power (at least
    here). From what I remember and from what I saw during selecting materials for
    an exhibition about the \"Second Circuit\", until 1989, underground publications
    were printed using the strangest technologies (from PVC carving to computer lineprinters),
    but certainly were not reproduced on Xerox machines.\r\n\r\nMore information [[http://translate.google.pl/translate?sl=pl&tl=en&js=n&prev=_t&hl=pl&ie=UTF-8&layout=2&eotf=1&u=http%3A%2F%2Fpl.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWydawnictwo_podziemne|here]]
    (automatic translation).\r\n\r\nPS: Paradoxally, some of samizdats were generated
    thanks to the state Institute of Literary Studies in Warsaw. I was told in ILS,
    that they used to press the counterintelligence and the security service to get
    the censored and confiscated publications, because the ILS's goal were research
    and studies on Polish literature, no matter of what source. And as you can imagine,
    \"each secret hole has it's secret mole\":-)"
  created: '2011-10-13 09:17:40'
date: '2011-10-04 07:50:32'
node_type: forum
title: Socialist features of a typeface

---
