---
author:
  name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
  picture: 112329
body: "He has given so much.\r\n\r\nThank you Steve. Be blessed.\r\n\r\nIn gratitude
  forever, Andreas St\xF6tzner (Leipzig)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Thanks Steve for everything and especially for making home computers something
    more than typewriters.
  created: '2011-10-06 07:26:40'
- author:
    name: jbtroost
    picture: 123455
  body: We will 'stay hungry, stay foolish'. Thank you, Steve!
  created: '2011-10-06 08:08:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "It\u2019s not unexpected, but still\u2026 My heart goes out to his family
    and friends. Fiftysix is way too young.\r\n\r\nMail your condolences, thoughts,
    etc. to\r\n\r\nrememberingsteve@apple.com"
  created: '2011-10-06 08:42:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "He gave so many people the freedom to tap into their entrepreneurial spirit
    and make a living for themselves. I for one, will be eternally grateful.\r\n\r\nThe
    phrase \"He changed the world\" can't be applied to many, but he really did.\r\n\r\nR
    I P Steve."
  created: '2011-10-06 09:58:30'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Nick, and he changed it for better, that's rare indeed!
  created: '2011-10-06 11:26:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Steve was the real deal. I felt - and still feel - a kinship with him because
    we are both adopted children and there's a mindset that most adopted children
    share. I can see it in the things he wrote and said and the disparate technologies
    he connected together into great products.\r\n\r\nA bad day.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-06 14:00:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well yeah, sad indeed, although not entirely a surprise.\r\n\r\nHe was a
    boomer like many of us, a dopehead college dropout who lived some of the hippy
    ethos through his work\u2014he talks about the <em>Last Whole Earth Catalog</em>
    in his famous Stanford speech, and the Aquarian mindset informs the functionality
    of all Apples, in particular through his development of the Graphic User Interface
    as central to the \"user experience\". But first, are you experienced? Have you
    ever been experienced?\r\n\r\nAn article I wrote about the Apple interface in
    2002, <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Writing/DeeperIn.pdf\">Deeper into the
    Paradigm</a>.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-06 17:20:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "How many universities have some kind of meeting between their design and
    business schools? Are there schools that teach \u201CDesign for Business Majors\u201D
    and vice-versa?"
  created: '2011-10-06 20:42:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>But first, are you experienced? Have you ever been experienced?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    necessarily stoned, just beautiful.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-06 21:11:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It really hits home to think about where we would all be, and not be, had
    it not been for this man's vision, and his quest (\xABcrazy\xBB, indeed) to make
    it real. I am very grateful; and very sad. Thank you, Steve. May you rest in peace."
  created: '2011-10-06 22:42:27'
- author:
    name: Addicted2Type
  body: I still can not believe it.....
  created: '2011-10-06 23:21:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">How many universities have some kind of meeting between their design and
    business schools?\r\n\r\nI think Keith Tam's school in Hong Kong does this. They
    have an annual conference on this subject every year, if I remember correctly. "
  created: '2011-10-07 00:08:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Not to speak ill of the dead, but \"better\" is a relative concept. Personally,
    I feel  fortunate to have grown up in the world that I grew up in, rather than
    the world of today. Conformity has become an expensive commodity, and nonconformity
    has come to mean something like virtual nonexistence. But, to each his own: Progress
    is what you make of it. At my age\u2014if not for today's technology\u2014I would
    probably be wearing an orange vest and greeting people at the front door, if I
    were lucky enough to have a job at all\u2026"
  created: '2011-10-07 17:05:17'
- author:
    name: Santiago Orozco
    picture: 117620
  body: A homage to Steve Jobs on my site http://typemade.mx/ :-(
  created: '2011-10-07 17:31:06'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: "\"Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy instruction
    in the country. Throughout the campus, every poster, every label on every drawer,
    was beautifully hand calligraphed. Because I had dropped out and didn't have to
    take the normal classes, I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to
    do this. I learned about serif and san serif typefaces, about varying the amount
    of space between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography
    great. It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science
    can't capture, and I found it fascinating.\" Steve Jobs 2005\r\n\r\nand we are
    all the better for Steve's interest in typography - "
  created: '2011-10-07 19:14:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">and we are all the better for Steve's interest in typography\r\n\r\n...true,
    but the second part of that quote seems a tiny bit of a stretch. Would there really
    be no proportional, beautiful fonts on computers if Steve hadn't taken that class?
    I guess we'll never know. "
  created: '2011-10-07 23:01:27'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "In answer to that: Because Apple (SJ) made fonts and the way they were essential
    to the WYSIWYG-paradigm such a big deal, Microsoft HAD to invest millions in fonts
    and the way they printed and presented to make their late-effort-reproduction
    called Windows a better product/choice (at least \u2014 to millions of consumers
    who could not be bothered to spring for the real thing)."
  created: '2011-10-08 01:07:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Because Apple (SJ) ... Microsoft...</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think you can
    have an account of the development of typography in personal computers that doesn't
    include Adobe. I suspect John Warnock's hiring of Sumner Stone as Director of
    Typography in 1984 had a much greater impact on the direction of digital typography
    than a calligraphy class that Steve Jobs took once."
  created: '2011-10-08 03:30:18'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I seem to remember something Adobe invented...PostScript?
  created: '2011-10-08 14:39:37'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: and Steve Jobs put Postscript into the first Macs and along came Pagemaker
    and we had desktop publishing rather than $80,000 computer type setting setups.
  created: '2011-10-08 19:02:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "sii> \"Would there really be no proportional, beautiful fonts on computers
    if Steve hadn't taken that class? I guess we'll never know.\"\r\n\r\nJust my opinion,
    but I think one'd never know without you, Paul Shaw \r\n<a href=\"http://t.co/qSL5qBEq\">(re:
    Arial</a>) or someone else baiting just the right person ;) \r\n\r\nJohn> \"I
    suspect John Warnock's hiring of Sumner Stone [...] in 1984 had a much greater
    impact on the direction of digital typography than a calligraphy class that Steve
    Jobs took once.\"\r\n\r\nWell, I guess I've done my own homework on that one;)
    IMHO Warnock brought the digital outline together with another Reed College calligrapher-turned-Autologic-type
    director Stone, and got a lot of great clones, revivals and interpretations of
    the standard fair. After the dream of an Adobe-dominated PS/Type1 font market
    dies, Warnock pretty much disappears until a font is named after him. Stone was
    pretty important to Adobe though, that's for sure. \r\n\r\nJobs made of the standard
    fare, and then added a whole bunch of non-standard fare, the daring though sometimes
    hideous scripts and decorative faces of the \"city fonts\", all as optimized bitmaps,
    perfect for the screen he was targeting. Then, when he needed to, he got proper
    licenses to the closest designs, as outline fonts, keeping consistent designs
    and names across the technical and cultural gap between the first generation of
    pcs and printers, from Apple, Xerox, IBM and HP, (all too puny to deal with outline
    fonts + 300 dpi output), and the second generation, 1986 Mac, that was just barely
    able to use postscript fonts and talk to high res. output. \r\n\r\nAnd then, Jobs
    took the classy-font-thing to Apple's web presence, and then to mobile devices.
    All because of one class. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-08 21:26:48'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: \u2018<em>I don't think you can have an account of the development
    of typography in personal computers that doesn't include Adobe.</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAnd
    I don\u2019t think that you can have an account on this development without mentioning
    URW, especially Dr. Peter Karow. At the DTL FontMaster conference of 2009 in The
    Hague, Peter Rosenfeld\u2019s presentation titled <a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/TD_2009/Re-Inventing_Technology_09.pdf\">Re-inventing
    Technology</a> was about the early days of digital typography. On page 30 of the
    PDF you will see a photograph from the 1980\u2019s, which shows quite some very
    important people from the font business, including some visitors from Adobe who
    came to learn the trade in Hamburg.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nQuestion of the day for this
    forum: can you name the VIP\u2019s on the photo?\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-09 10:07:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Cleo Huggins is my pick ;)
  created: '2011-10-09 13:21:29'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/URW_photo_3483.jpg]\r\nDavid: \u2018<em>Cleo
    Huggins is my pick</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\n<strong>Bingo!</strong> The following
    piece of text is from Peter Rosenfeld\u2019s (on the photo in question: front
    row, #4 from the left) presentation:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n<em>This photo was taken in
    1985 or 1986. Prof. Hermann Zapf, living design Germany legend from Darmstadt
    near Frankfurt, the man in the blue suit in the center of the picture, designed
    a range of new typefaces for URW in those years. [\u2026] The two young people
    on the right-hand side, Cleo Huggins and Dan Mills, are from California, and were
    sent to URW to learn all about IKARUS and professional font production. At that
    time, Cleo and Dan worked for Bigelow & Homes of Sans Francisco, later both were
    hired by \u2026 Adobe. Adobe\u2019s early type director, well known designer Sumner
    Stone, worked for Autologic, a former IKARUS customer in the LA neighbourhood.
    [\u2026]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe guy next to Cleo, right behind Peter Karow, is Mark
    Jamra, another US designer who spent a few years at URW designing and producing
    his \uFB01rst major font family Jamille. Jamille was released by ITC, the former
    independent font design marketing company from New York, today owned by Monotype
    sharing the same destiny as Letraset and Linotype \u2013 and who is next? By the
    way, URW was commissioned to digitize and distribute ITC\u2019s new typeface releases
    for about 10 years.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB"
  created: '2011-10-10 16:45:54'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stevejobs_6011.jpg]'
  created: '2011-10-11 14:43:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/steve-jobs-death-apple-calligraphy-248900
  created: '2011-10-15 19:49:26'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Okay, I get it: Jobs changed so many things in so many ways, all\u2014presumably\u2014for
    the better. Unfortunately, Progress often has unintended consequences, as well
    as Collateral Damage. The price of Conformity has gone up considerably; Childhood
    will never be the same. For what that's worth\u2026"
  created: '2011-10-15 21:03:16'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "@Mark-  Steve spoke about his calligraphy class in his famous Stanford speech.\r\n@oldnick
    - too true..\"childhood will never be the same\" - indeed...I grew up without
    computers (of course in the 1940's and 50's), and no tv (in the global boondocks)
    and childhood was wonderful.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-17 00:47:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I grew up when personal computers showed real promise - it was magical.\r\nNow
    we're all stuck with bloated fashionware sh*t. That's what makes me sad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 20:28:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'There''s always enough anti-Apple folks to ruin a nice thread. '
  created: '2011-10-24 21:44:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "But isn't any emerging wave of innovation magical, only to be commoditized
    at some point? I think we all tend to be overly nostalgic for the past. I dunno,
    name brands aside, when I can pull up google maps in my hand and see exactly where
    on the planet I'm standing, I still find that a little magical. \r\n\r\nSure,
    childhood will never be the same. But that's what parents were saying in the 80s
    too. And 60s. And 40s. Etc. ;) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 22:06:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wasn't being anti-Apple. Windows is just as bad as OSX,\r\nand all these
    stupid shiny boxes are as deeply inspiring\r\nas a muddy puddle. If you had grown
    up in the Bay Area\r\nin the 70s you might understand what I'm feeling.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, in my book any kind of individual-worship\r\ndoes indeed stink to high heaven.
    Saint?! Jobs himself\r\nwas wise enough to look down on that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 22:09:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's just sad to watch Mankind's <em>most incredible\r\ninvention</em> turned
    into yet another vapid cash cow.\r\nSuch sadness vastly outweighs the passing
    of any\r\nindividual, no matter how gifted.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 22:10:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"It's just sad to see Mankind's most incredible\r\ninvention be turned into
    yet another vapid\r\ncash cow.\"\r\n\r\nWell, at this point, I'm not entirely
    sure what we're talking about, but let's assume it's the consumer devices Apple
    is known for.\r\n\r\nI agree that it can be seen as sad that we've invented computers
    that allow us to send robots to Mars, yet for the most part, they're used for
    porn and facebook. \r\n\r\nAnd the iPad, as an example, is certainly a device
    focused mainly on our modern mindless entertainment. Jobs changed the world of
    music, gaming, reading, etc. He certainly didn't invent world peace or anything
    of the sort.\r\n\r\nThat said, what he did build is being used for some rather
    remarkable things that aren't necessarily great mass market ads. A specific example
    is children who don't have the ability to speak. Many of these children have had
    to rely on sound boards...large boards with pictures on them that they have to
    touch to have a computerized voice speak for them. The problems with these devices
    were their size, limited vocabulary, and incredible expense.\r\n\r\nThen came
    the iPad. That with a $100 app and this child now has the ability to communicate
    more than they ever could before. And there's even a good side to the \"fashionware
    sh*t\"...this child is no longer that weird kid with the wheelchair. He's now
    that kid with the iPad. \r\n\r\nSo, it's all about perspective. What people do
    with the technologies is good and bad. Useful and pointless. But the technology
    is there now and accessible in ways that we may not have even imagined if it hadn't
    been for Steve Jobs. "
  created: '2011-10-24 22:25:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> let's assume it's the consumer devices Apple is known for.\r\n\r\nYou see
    what I mean?! NO.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI prefer Wozniak.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 22:41:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You see what I mean?!\"\r\n\r\nObviously, I don't. Clue me in, if you'd
    like. "
  created: '2011-10-24 22:46:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I meant the unique invention of something physical that\r\nreflects our own
    existence, the \"thinking machine\".\r\nNot some specific vacuous instance(s)
    of that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 23:07:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I read an article the other day about the trend in California for the heads
    of Silicon Valley companies to send their children to Waldorf Schools, where there
    are no computers and learning focuses on physical experience, movement, music,
    etc. '
  created: '2011-10-24 23:53:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>I meant the unique invention of something physical that
    reflects our own existence, the \"thinking machine\". Not some specific vacuous
    instance(s) of that.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd here, I always thought that a computer
    was simply an automated adding machine. Not something that can actually think
    in the sense of being conscious.\r\n\r\nThat is not to say, of course, that computers
    are not wonderful inventions. They are so versatile that, in fact, they could
    indeed be used to create a conscious \"artificial brain\" - sometime in the future.
    Not necessarily the very <em>far</em> future, either, with the rapid progress
    of microelectronics.\r\n\r\nBut the computer as it is now is not really an echo
    of the human soul."
  created: '2011-10-25 01:11:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I myself don't believe in Artificial Intelligence in terms\r\nof replicating
    actual intelligence, philosophically. But if\r\none defines AI as the ability
    of a machine to simply <em>appear</em>\r\nintelligent -which does have fundamental
    social implications-\r\nthen at least according to the Turing Test we're already
    there:\r\nElbot and Cleverbot -as primitive as they are compared to what\r\nwill
    be- can fool about 1/3 of people long enough to matter.\r\nNow one might point
    to something like Siri, but the problem\r\nis nothing controlled by a corporation
    can ever hope to be\r\nallowed to make real social change for the better.\r\n\r\n>
    But the computer as it is now is not really an echo of the human soul.\r\n\r\nI
    think that's actually a very good way to put what it could be!\r\nHowever it is
    not given the necessary freedom anymore, a freedom\r\nit did have before the average
    Joe realized there's money in it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-25 02:00:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It seems that Jobs did not live up to your vision of a technologically advanced
    socialist utopia free of corporate influence. Fair enough.\r\n\r\nStill, for a
    lot of people, he left a mark, and that's what he's being remembered for. "
  created: '2011-10-25 02:15:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I'm just happy I don't have to draw lettering with a ruling pen on frosted
    mylar anymore. I'll let all of you big thinkers discuss your disappointment with
    the personal computer.
  created: '2011-10-25 03:22:09'
date: '2011-10-06 06:51:22'
node_type: forum
title: Steve Jobs . 1955-2011

---
