---
author:
  name: Ehague
  picture: 112252
body: "I'm working on putting together a law review comment topic that will focus
  on the IP protections afforded to typeface design within various American IP regimes.
  \r\n\r\nIf we take it as a given that type design enjoys comparatively little protection
  in the US (or that these protections are rarely invoked), I'd like your input on
  the following question:\r\n\r\nIs type design prospering anyway? Or is the field
  arguably a fraction as explosive as it would be were the supposed incentives to
  create better protected?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I don't think protecting the IP affects a font designer's income significantly.
    While I'm, sure I lose some sales to piracy I also gain a lot of sales from piracy.
    If IP protection had an effect on whether or not a font designer was able to commit
    to font design as a full-time job, that would have some impact on font design
    . . . but I think it's a stretch of the imagination. Overprotecting IP has a negative
    impact on a font designer's relationship with their customers. Is a font designer
    going to quit developing a font because people are copying their other fonts?
    You'd have to be a very sensitive font designer. Nah. If font designs themselves
    were protected it would halt innovation. I'd certainly get into another business.
  created: '2011-10-06 14:55:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Although digital font products (as they are referred to in license agreements)
    are frequently compared with other digital commodities such as recorded music,
    photographs, films and videos, there is an important distinction.\r\n\r\nThose
    are end products, entertainment consumed by the general public.\r\n\r\nIt may
    seem that fonts are similar, to the extent that they are most readily conceived
    of as collections of images with cultural properties, but the big difference is
    that as an economic product they are primarily professional tools which function
    economically in the business-to-business market, software purchased by professional
    designers to help them make, and add value to, their own products and services.\r\n\r\nBusiness
    people are less inclined to piracy than consumers, as cheating is not a best practice.\r\n\r\nI
    can't speak for other foundries or the font industry in general, as figures are
    hard to come by, but Shinntype, founded in 1998, is doing better than ever. I
    have in the past taken issue with software bundling as an unfair business practice,
    and suspect that it has suppressed the potential mass market for fonts, but that
    is an issue of size rather than kind, and, as Ray says, it's debatable whether
    \"free\" stimulates or restricts the market. \"Free\", as argued by <em>Wire</em>'s
    Chris Anderson, is a unique quality of the digital economy, in which the rules
    and behavior are somewhat different than for physical goods. \r\n\r\nIt's impossible
    for law and regulation to keep up with the technology marketplace\u2014things
    have, to a large extent, sorted themselves out, as ethics emerge via informal
    social contracts as much as by formal EULAs. The legal status of typefaces, protected
    more as software than as design shapes, is hard to grasp, not quite logical, and
    open to negotiation\u2014but that in itself opens up economic space for license
    format proliferation. Recently, the font industry has managed to sort out the
    webfont issue, a thorny roadblock for ten years.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-06 16:18:39'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>Business people are less inclined to piracy than consumers, as cheating
    is not a best practice.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre big design studios and in-house graphics
    departments uniformly good about this? How much of an education gap is there?
    (i.e., how prevalent is the knowledge that licensing issues with fonts ought to
    be policed as rigorously as those involving music?)\r\n\r\n(I'm not sure how someone
    could measure this.)"
  created: '2011-10-06 18:00:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"If we take it as a given that type design enjoys comparatively little protection
    in the US (or that these protections are rarely invoked)....\"\r\n\r\nI know that
    wasn't your question, but I don't think it is at all reasonable to take that as
    a given, and there is a big difference between something being legal and illegal,
    even if the \"protections are rarely invoked.\"\r\n\r\nOr to put it another way,
    if there was NO legal protection for digital font files, if font file sharing
    were legal, that would be a huge blow the type industry. The font retail market
    as we know it today would pretty much vanish overnight. The fact that typeface
    design is incarnated in OpenType and TrueType fonts, which are then treated as
    software for IP purposes, is a pretty big deal, and in terms of understanding
    how the field of type design is doing.\r\n\r\nIt's as if the visuals of a film
    were not protected, but all forms films are distributed in were protected, and
    it was legal to do a recording of the picture you saw in the theatre. The film
    industry would not like this, but as long as the product they actually distribute
    was still legally protected (like fonts are), the fact that some abstract concept
    of the film was not protected would not have a major economic impact. Same principle
    explains the health of the type industry.\r\n\r\nOf course, retail font sales
    aren't everything... but for many, perhaps most type designers they are a vital
    portion of their income (or their employers' income).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-10-06 20:11:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@Ehague: Is this a personal, professional or academic project?'
  created: '2011-10-06 20:28:00'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Well said, Nick.
  created: '2011-10-07 01:17:27'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "@Christopher: Academic, for law school\r\n\r\n<cite>I don't think it is at
    all reasonable to take that as a given.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree that the \"low-IP\"
    label in the world of <cite>digital</cite> type is debatable (that is going to
    be another thread), but even under the current protection regime, you still see
    file sharing of protected .otfs, etc., but you don't see all that many lawsuits.
    (Correct me if I'm wrong on either count.) \r\n\r\nIf film suddenly were suddenly
    protected under a scheme similar to that which fonts enjoy, I would expect that
    any violations\u2014even small ones\u2014of what meager protections were available
    would be pursued by the rights holders. That's how film rights holder behave currently,
    when they have even broader IP protection. Why are there so few suits between
    font rights holders and non-licensing entities?\r\n\r\nI guess this hinges, though,
    on an assumption that there is a systemic, difficult-to-quantify culture of font
    piracy. \r\n"
  created: '2011-10-07 02:13:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> I guess this hinges, though, on an assumption that there is a systemic,
    difficult-to-quantify culture of font piracy.\r\n\r\nFile sharing of fonts seems
    to be about as rampant as file sharing of music and other protected formats. There
    may be fewer lawsuits (though there are certainly some as NBC and others can attest).\r\n\r\n>
    Why are there so few suits between font rights holders and non-licensing entities?\r\n\r\nI
    think there are a lot of reasons, and some of them are subject to debate. I think
    the one that most of us agree on is that the entire western-language type industry
    is on the order of a $100M/year business (just as a ballpark). There just isn't
    as much money to protect in fonts as there is in music, film or television.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-07 03:53:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Type Design: Flourishing or Floundering? \r\n\r\nBoth, depending on where
    you look. o"
  created: '2011-10-07 16:28:31'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>Why are there so few suits between font rights holders and non-licensing
    entities?</cite>\r\n\r\nI consider font piracy a long-dead horse unresponsive
    to further beatings. So I will only say that your observation is true of many
    media industries, not just fonts. \r\n\r\nRationally speaking, if you're a rights
    holder, you would only go to court against a pirate if:\r\n\r\n1) You can identify
    a pirate, serve them with a lawsuit, and bring them into the jurisdiction of a
    convenient court. (Not necessarily easy or cheap.)\r\n\r\n2) The pirate can pay
    the damages OR the lawsuit will have a deterrent effect on others considering
    piracy.\r\n\r\n3) Most important: the gain from #2 outweighs the value of just
    finding new customers who are willing to pay for your product. (I.e., the expected
    return from spending your money on litigation > spending the same money on marketing
    & sales.)\r\n\r\nTherefore, one might predict that the rights holders most likely
    to sue pirates are the ones who believe they've already reached the boundaries
    of their market, so they have to change the habits of people inside the market.
    For instance, the RIAA's famous (and arguably pyrrhic) campaign of suing individuals
    who had copied music.\r\n\r\nBut in most industries \u2014 especially small ones
    \u2014 it makes better sense to put your capital toward market growth, not ligitation.
    Indeed, as I sit here enjoying my Spotify account \u2014 a new arrival in the
    US, which essentially duplicates the experience of Napster in 2000 \u2014 I think
    maybe even the record companies have learned this lesson, however slowly. "
  created: '2011-10-07 20:53:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think it is important to look at different kinds of IP violation independently,
    and not try to lump them altogether. Unlicensed file sharing, unlicensed use,
    and copying of designs are different kinds of violations, and have different impacts
    in individual cases. I don't think it is possible to make any kind of generalisation
    about overall impact across the font business. As David says, it depends where
    you look, and also what you look at.
  created: '2011-10-07 21:52:19'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>You can identify a pirate, serve them with a lawsuit . . . . Not necessarily
    easy or cheap.</cite>\r\n\r\nI would also think there would also be especially
    tricky discovery/evidentiary issues to worry about. It would be easy enough to
    prove that a TV commercial used a Lady Gaga song without licensing it\u2014or
    even that it used a cover of the song's underlying composition without licensing
    it\u2014but to prove that the font you see rendered in motion graphics wasn't
    properly licensed must be a hassle of another magnitude. (In that situation, the
    missing copyright protection for typeface design would be analogous to the composition
    rights.)\r\n\r\nMy thinking is that the design world\u2014or however you want
    to lasso in the main consumer base of digital fonts\u2014generally suffer from
    a) a lack of awareness about the legal dimensions of font use, b) a justifiable
    lack of fear about the consequences of playing fast and loose with a font EULA,
    and, to that point, c) a certain degree of comfort in industry norms. \r\n\r\nTrying
    to sue every TV network or movie studio or magazine that uses a font of dubious
    licensing pedigree would never result in a paradigm of font licensing as assiduously
    respected as those surrounding image or music licensing. More litigation would
    only chill legitimate type consumption. \r\n"
  created: '2011-10-09 02:57:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I think it important we be mindful of our potential for a bit of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Response_bias\">response
    bias</a>. And I\u2019m not sure if it\u2019s come up, but a while ago I stumbled
    across <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/articles/we_dont_need_new_fonts\">a
    Typotheque article: \u201CWe don\u2019t need new fonts\u2026</a>\u201D which may
    be of interest to you Ehague. At the same time I started <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/84732\">a
    Typophile thread: \u201CWe dont\u2019t need more fonts\u2026</a>\u201D which might
    have some other relevant commentary. I have poor memory and did not participate
    in the dialogue. Just putting it out there for the group."
  created: '2011-10-10 19:25:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ehague\r\n\r\nThere is quite a bit of literature already - by lawyers and
    law sudents - on this topic.\r\n\r\nThere are presently a couple of nuisance suits
    (characterization mine) being brought by font producers P22 and Typotheque represented
    by a New York copyright attorney named Frank Martinez. You can give me your opinion
    of the complaints as filed with the court - I've got them.\r\n\r\nAre you aware
    of these? Feel free to contact me on my blog.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I'm planning on
    proposing \"Fonts As Copyrightable Software: Myth or Reality\" as either a stand-alone
    talk or a debate at either next year's SOTA or ATYPI conference.\r\n\r\nRichard
    Fink\r\nhttp://readableweb.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-10 23:58:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm not sure that protection for type designs is the only reason why type
    design may be \"floundering\".\r\n\r\nThe widespread availability of font design
    tools is leading to many people designing typefaces that aren't that good, by
    which professional products are obscured.\r\n\r\nAnd the new market of computer
    typesetting means that the number of digital typefoundries run by professional
    type designers is much larger as well. It is not like the \"old days\", where
    there was ATF, Monotype, Linotype, and Ludlow - and one took one's pick from what
    they offered.\r\n\r\nFrom those days, when new players entered the field - IBM
    with its Selectric Composer, Compugraphic with its phototypesetting machines,
    and so on - there was no choice but to copy and imitate the established popular
    styles. If there <em>had</em> been good protection for type designs, then there
    would have been no competition in typesetting machines.\r\n\r\nNow, it is different.
    The owners of the typefaces sell fonts in a standard format - TrueType, Adobe
    Type 1, OpenType - that fits everything. Strong protection for type designs will
    only protect the type designs - they won't give, for example, a monopoly of the
    computer industry to Monotype, because only Monotype desktop computers will allow
    you to print using Times Roman, since Times Roman is only available in the XYZ
    digital font format that can only be used by the Monotype operating system.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    in fact, even where type designs are strongly protected, the protection has a
    limited term - so Times Roman, for example, can be freely imitated - and there
    is more than one open-source imitation of it available.\r\n\r\nI have said this
    before, but what I see as the problem is that professional type designers really
    have one serious market, and that a narrow one - magazine art directors who want
    a distinctive unique look for their publications. Almost everyone else who uses
    type has an embarrasment of choice - all the \"old standby\" typefaces are easily
    available, and only a tiny fraction of type users have any motive to use, say,
    Stone Sans instead of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nSo today's type designers are not getting
    rich. Far too much competition, far too small a market. Type design is largely
    only a labor of creative love - and even if great things are being achieved, they
    languish in obscurity.\r\n\r\nI think this is worrisome even beyond the urgency
    of the economic issue to type designers. Our age seems likely to leave no typographic
    legacy behind, no titans to rank beside Benton, Dwiggins, Goudy or Zapf.\r\n\r\nOh,
    wait. Our age may be remembered for Comic Sans and Papyrus."
  created: '2011-10-11 01:56:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, which part of the type industry do you work in?\r\nI suspect you are
    an amateur, because from my perspective as a professional you are talking complete
    nonsense."
  created: '2011-10-11 06:53:07'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "You're looking through the wrong end of the microscope. I think that's your
    own, made-up font history timeline.\r\n\r\nHere's one part I understood:\r\n\r\n<em>I
    have said this before, but what I see as the problem is that professional type
    designers really have one serious market, and that a narrow one - magazine art
    directors who want a distinctive unique look for their publications. Almost everyone
    else who uses type has an embarrassment of choice - all the \"old standby\" typefaces
    are easily available, and only a tiny fraction of type users have any motive to
    use, say, Stone Sans instead of Helvetica.</em>\r\n\r\nThe reason you think magazine
    art directors are the only serious market is because that's probably where you
    notice new fonts. Almost all my sales are small design agencies on small projects.
    There is a need for visual novelty outside of the magazine business and it's being
    served every day. I guarantee every one of those agencies that buys my fonts already
    has old stand-by fonts. Walk away from the magazine rack, go to the grocery store
    and observe: lots of new fonts. Almost everywhere you look, you can see new fonts."
  created: '2011-10-12 02:52:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Myfonts bestsellers, April 17, 2004:\r\n\r\n1. Helvetica\r\n2. Zapfino\r\n3.
    Univers\r\n4. Frutiger\r\n5. P22 Cezanne\r\n6. Neue Helvetica\r\n7. Trade Gothic\r\n8.
    Bank Gothic\r\n9. Futura\r\n10. Optima\r\n11. Gill Sans\r\n12. Eurostile\r\n&c.,
    &c.\r\n\r\nWith the exception of Zapfino and Cezanne, those types were designed
    30-75 years earlier, and published by large corporations not owned by type designers.
    Compare with today, when almost all of the best-selling fonts are new designs
    from foundries owned by type designers. Type design is flourishing, historically
    speaking\u2014but it's impossible to know how different the situation would have
    been with \"better protection\". It is what it is.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-12 05:38:55'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Nick, part of the reason the picture at MyFonts has changed is that Linotype/Monotype
    no longer sell there. I''m sure those typefaces are just as popular as ever (minus
    however many sales they may have lost after leaving MyFonts). '
  created: '2011-10-12 14:00:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "True, but IIRC the picture had changed substantially before Monotype pulled
    out.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately I don't have any data to support that, just a screen
    grab of MyFonts best sellers from 2004."
  created: '2011-10-12 14:51:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Look at the CD racks, too. Not everything there is lettering.\r\nSame with
    the toy store. The junk mail. The ads. The library... if it hasn't been torn down
    to make room for a mall or an office block.\r\n\r\nSome ad agencies' websites
    have font sample pages."
  created: '2011-10-12 15:27:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>John, which part of the type industry do you work in?\r\nI
    suspect you are an amateur, because from my perspective as a professional you
    are talking complete nonsense.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, you are correct in at least
    the first part of this. And if, indeed, type design is currently flourishing,
    despite the flourishing not being visible from the outside to an interested layperson
    like myself, that is good.\r\n\r\nAnd, in fact, I suppose that I should not be
    surprised - the enormous amount of type design activity by professional type designers,
    not just the people who dump stuff in Dafont and such places, presumably would
    not exist without <em>some</em> market.\r\n\r\nIt does seem from my limited perspective
    that Comic Sans and Papyrus on the one hand - and Lucida and Stone Sans on the
    other - are recent typefaces that have a significant presence, while so much else
    of merit - Kingfisher, Williams Caslon, Miller - is totally invisible and under
    the radar. Which puts it in danger of being totally forgotten in a few years'
    time."
  created: '2011-10-12 23:45:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'See also: RIAA, MPAA, Software Industry'
  created: '2011-10-13 00:18:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, Miller is one of the faces that has been \"acquired\" by MoMA.\r\nAs
    the concept of such acquisitions is a novel curatorial event in its own right,
    I would venture that means the 23 \"acquired\" faces will have some historic tenacity."
  created: '2011-10-13 04:02:45'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "In answer to the question, I shall make a font of flounders with flourishes.\r\n\r\ncheers."
  created: '2011-10-13 04:31:44'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Thanks everyone for the input. I've gone ahead and submitted my comment proposal.
    I'll be back with more substantive questions and help sourcing various propositions
    down the road. (Did you know there are law review articles out there that just
    directly cite typophile threads?) \r\n\r\nEric"
  created: '2011-10-14 14:58:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>Did you know there are law review articles out there that just
    directly cite typophile threads</em>?\u201D\r\n\r\nReferences?"
  created: '2011-10-14 19:14:31'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>see, e.g.,</cite> Blake Fry, <cite>Why Typefaces Proliferate Without
    Copyright Protection</cite>, 8 J. on Telecomm. & High Tech. L. 425, 436 n.68 (2010);
    Jacqueline D Lipton, <cite>To \xA9 or Not to \xA9? Copyright and Innovation in
    the Digital Typeface Industry</cite>,  43 U.C. Davis L. Rev. 143, 169 n.121 (2009).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-15 02:46:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Comic Sans and Papyrus on the one hand - and Lucida and Stone Sans on the
    other - are recent typefaces\"\r\n\r\nWhat on earth is your definition of \"recent\"?
    I'm not sure which of the Lucida typefaces you'd be referring to, but you're talking
    typefaces that are all what, 15-28 years old?\r\n\r\nRichard: \"In fact, I'm planning
    on proposing \"Fonts As Copyrightable Software: Myth or Reality\" as either a
    stand-alone talk or a debate at either next year's SOTA or ATYPI conference.\"\r\n\r\nI
    assume you're referring to the state of affairs in the USA? If you want to go
    global, it gets more complicated, and varies between different countries.\r\n\r\nBut,
    in the USA, AFAIK there's no \"there\" there, it's reality, and only cranks suggest
    otherwise. The combination of the copyright office's rulings on the topic and
    the summary judgment in Adobe vs SSI makes the current state of affairs pretty
    darn clear. Of course, it could be appealed further up the ladder, to the Supreme
    Court, but it seems as settled as anything that has not been the subject of a
    Supreme Court ruling can be.\r\n\r\nDrop the \"Myth or Reality\" subtitle, and
    if you (or somebody) put together a panel discussion with sufficiently knowledgeable
    font lawyers on the panel to actually tell everyone what the state of affairs
    is, it could be more interesting. If there was a panel proposal with Frank Martinez,
    Paul Stack and Donna Kolnes up there, that would be very cool.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-10-15 08:27:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">If there was a panel proposal with Frank Martinez, Paul Stack and Donna
    Kolnes up there, that would be very cool.\r\n\r\nLol, but really, the direction
    print and web type have taken (together), and the standards vacuum fonts and the
    publishing industry got suckered into, the business has gone near totally to a
    \"service\", as predicted.\r\n\r\nDon'tcha know!? :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-15 13:36:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The future I saw, after reading <em>The Diamond Age</em> in 1996, involved
    neural/optical implants and micropayments, so that every time a person looked
    at a glyph, the glyphs' owner would receive a payment. But not immediately of
    course, the banks would hang onto it for a few days, sameold vigorish, ennit.
  created: '2011-10-15 18:29:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">If there was a panel proposal with Frank Martinez, Paul Stack and Donna
    Kolnes up there, that would be very cool.\r\n\r\nHey, bring 'em on. But just me
    against them doesn't seem fair - to them, that is.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 20:46:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">The combination of the copyright office's rulings on the topic and the summary
    judgment in Adobe vs SSI makes the current state of affairs pretty darn clear.\r\n\r\nSorry,
    nope. Misinformation. Let's have a panel!"
  created: '2011-10-25 01:39:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Let's have a panel!</em>\r\n\r\nAlternatively, you could select a pile
    of Adobe fonts, and produce and distribute derivative works in a manner that you
    earnestly believe to be permitted under US law. I'm not encouraging you to do
    this, of course, and accept no liability for the outcome. But at least Mr King
    of SSi was willing to put his money where his mouth was."
  created: '2011-10-25 19:10:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sorry, Richard, but I believe you're deeply mistaken. Still, I think we should
    all be much more interested in seeing the lawyers discuss what *they* believe
    the state of the law is than to hear your (or my) opinions.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    I am pretty sure that I know what they will say, based on previous experience...
    that's where my opinions came from. Well, at least Donna and Frank, dunno for
    sure what Paul would say.\r\n\r\nFor those who don't know who these folks are:\r\n\r\n-
    Donna Kolnes is a lawyer at Adobe who has been their legal counsel on font matters
    for at least 15 years.\r\n\r\n- Paul Stack is outside legal counsel for Monotype
    Imaging, or at least was last time I heard about it. http://www.stacklaw.com/\r\n\r\n-
    Frank Martinez is a lawyer who has many smaller/independent foundries as clients
    and whose entire business is built around interaction between design and the law.
    He is a former graphic designer and former US patent  examiner, so he brings unique
    experience and perspective to his clients. He has been the counsel in a number
    of recent high-profile lawsuits brought by foundries against unlicensed use of
    their fonts by prominent customers (Font Bureau vs NBC, P22 vs NBC Universal for
    Wizarding World of Harry Potter, Typotheque vs RaiseDigital for Rick Santorum's
    presidential bid website). http://www.martinezgroup.com/aboutus.html\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-10-25 19:18:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Sorry, nope. Misinformation. Let's have a panel!</cite>\r\n\r\nRichard,
    if you are going to use Typophile as a platform for passing yourself as some sort
    of web typography expert, you should at least stick to the subjects where you
    are remotely credible. Every time you get into the legal discussions it becomes
    obvious that you\u2019re just a crank with no marketing budget."
  created: '2011-10-25 19:38:06'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "The Adobe v. SSI decision failed to take any account of the \"merger doctrine\"
    under US copyright law, which I think is a serious flaw in its reasoning. (I don't
    know if that's what Richard was getting at.)\r\n\r\nPart of what makes copyright
    law interesting (and at times, infuriating) is that very few issues have black
    & white answers. Supreme Court justices can \u2014 and do \u2014 disagree on these
    topics.\r\n\r\nI don't expect, however, that a panel of font-industry attorneys
    would publicly take a position against the copyrightability of font software.
    If you want a contrarian view, you'd need someone without a stake in the outcome.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-25 20:19:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew: <em>The Adobe v. SSI decision failed to take any account of the
    \"merger doctrine\" under US copyright law</em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, it seemed
    to me that SSi was directly arguing merger doctrine: that the placement of points
    was determinative and hence not protectable by copyright. Paul King was certainly
    arguing that against me and Thomas and others on comp.fonts at the time. His whole
    (copyright) case rested on this, and he settled when Judge White's summary judgement
    very clearly stated that the position of points was not determinative and was
    protectable by copyright."
  created: '2011-10-26 03:22:33'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>The Adobe v. SSI decision failed to take any account of the \"merger
    doctrine\" under US copyright law</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat would that argument look
    like? I agree with John that there's already some flavor of that argument in SSI,
    but if I'm interpreting this right, it seems pretty weak. Digitizing a lowercase
    sans <cite>l</cite> is often a fairly uncreative undertaking, but describing a
    particular curve with bezier points strikes me as one of the main creative tasks
    a digital type founder can perform\u2014or it's at least one of the skills that
    really separates the amateurs from the auteurs."
  created: '2011-10-26 15:42:21'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>What would that argument look like?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are good summaries
    of \"that argument\" available with gentle Googling.\r\n\r\nUnder the facts, I
    think the Adobe v. SSI case came out the right way."
  created: '2011-10-26 18:21:27'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dunwich\r\n<em>\"Richard, if you are going to use Typophile as a platform
    for passing yourself as some sort of web typography expert, you should at least
    stick to the subjects where you are remotely credible.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIt's true,
    I'm incredible. Or so my girlfriends have always told me. This is not news. Incidentally,
    the following comment I've written is rated \"For Mature Audiences\" and there
    are parts during which you might have to excuse yourself.\r\n\r\n@butterick\r\nEven
    if IP law is not your thing, you being an attorney and therefore (I should hope)
    more aware than most about how the legal system works - I'd like to point out
    that what you've written - especially regarding biases from hired guns with vested
    interests in telling a client what they want to hear - should be taken quite seriously.
    An adversarial approach is the one to take. And if an attorney like William Patry
    or Jessica Litman or James Boyle could be enticed onto a panel, wow, that would
    be something.\r\n\r\n@all\r\n\r\nI'm glad that Thomas Phinney - who I like and
    respect and who has a high degree of intellectual integrity - has made it clear
    that for the most part, his views are a pass-along of stuff he's been told by
    lawyers working for Adobe and a lawyer for litigants like Font Bureau. I don't
    know if it was his intention or not, but this does get me off a hook. (Thomas
    loves type and the type community and should he feel those things being threatened
    and should his considerable powers of reason and analysis fail him as a result,
    I would understand anyway. We're all suckers for love.)\r\n\r\nWhich brings me
    to the question:\r\n\r\nWhich would you prefer, arranging your business affairs
    based on a realistic and unbiased assessment of the protectability of fonts under
    copyright law today - in light of thirteen or so years of new case law and the
    proliferation of fonts into the six figures and a move into the mainstream of
    people's consciousness - or stay stuck in 1997, all comfy and self-deceptive and
    base your decisions on what amounts to corporate propaganda left over from a time
    when a few big companies thought they could gain competitive advantage and an
    enduring revenue stream by, in effect, securing access to the use of human language
    itself by claiming ownership of digitized versions of the alphabet.\r\n(Of course
    I don't actually think those involved thought of it that way. But it really does
    boil down to that. And it really <strong>was</strong> that grandiose an ambition.
    It makes you wonder how anybody could ever think that such a thing would or could
    fly over the long term. But I would have reached for that brass ring, too.)\r\nAnd
    if any company should be looking and listening and analyzing, it's Extensis. Of
    course that does not preclude continuing to promote the old notions - but certainly
    a company with as vested an interest in fonts as licensed products as Extensis
    should be extra careful to keep an open mind and an ear to the ground. It might
    seem to make sense to crow - as a marketing ploy - about these nuisance suits
    like Font Bureau v NBC but they are actually a bad thing for you, not a good one.
    All it would take is one NBC or a Universal to say, \"F-ck you, we're not settling\"
    and that would be that. What's being played is a game of legal brinksmanship and
    it won't be the litigant or the lawyer in that one particular case who \"loses\"
    - it will be the entire type community at large.\r\n(And making a point to mention
    these cases at every turn in the interest of justifying some of the company's
    products existence with FUD is a sign of tremendous weakness, not strength.)\r\n\r\n[What
    follows next is an example from business history. Dunwich, perhaps now you should
    go to your room.]\r\n\r\nAnybody remember a company named MCI? Here it is from
    <href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MCI_Communications\">Wikipedia</a></em>:\r\n\r\n<em>MCI
    Communications Corp. was an American telecommunications company that was instrumental
    in legal and regulatory changes that led to the breakup of the AT&T monopoly of
    American telephony and ushered in the competitive long-distance telephone industry.</em>\r\n\r\nMCI
    was unusual in that the source of it's entrepreneurial opportunity was revealed
    through legal analysis. Management at MCI had come to the conclusion that AT&T,
    an American institution, politically untouchable, was clearly in violation of
    Anti-Trust laws and that a serious legal challenge would, at a minimum, end ATT&T's
    monopoly on long-distance telephone service in America, thereby paving the way
    for MCI - which had positioned itself to cater to the long-distance market.\r\nThe
    \"smart money\" thought MCI was crazy. Going after AT&T was like going after Mom
    and Apple Pie. Break up the Bell System? Yeah, tell me another one. But top management
    at MCI and their attorneys couldn't see it any other way. And they were proved
    absolutely correct. \r\n\r\nThe point here is that the legal landscape can change
    drastically and quickly.\r\nAnd the big question is: well, if it does, what will
    be its effects on my business? What steps might I need to take?\r\n\r\nI'm not
    going to argue here whether or not fonts are or are not protected under copyright.
    (I will elsewhere, though.)\r\nHowever it's only fair to tell you this: harping
    on Judge Whyte's comments in Adobe v Southern as if it is in any way significant
    and/or definitive is a disservice.\r\nIt's not a published opinion and it has
    absolutely no force as precedent. An attorney could not even cite it in a brief.
    It is not binding on any court, even in the same district.\r\nIt's just a news
    item: \"Judge Whyte Said Blah, Blah, Blah During Adobe v Southern Trial\". \r\nBut,
    it was seized and publicized with fervor - and it still is - in an effort to prop
    up the notion that even though typefaces have no copyright protection at all,
    fonts are \"software\" and that somehow, by waving the magic wand of digitization,
    the typeface now enjoys protection.\r\n\r\nIn other words, it's irrelevant. Unless
    you want to take advantage of people's lack of knowledge of copyright law.\r\nPresenting
    it as legal precedent is bogus and frankly, once I found out about the deception,
    I was pissed off.\r\n\r\nThat's all for today.\r\n\r\nDunwich, you can come back
    into the living room now.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-27 03:51:24'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>I'd like to point out that what you've written - especially regarding
    biases from hired guns with vested interests in telling a client what they want
    to hear</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's not what I wrote. If that's how you would characterize
    the work of attorneys, I disagree.\r\n\r\n<cite>It's not a published opinion and
    it has absolutely no force as precedent. An attorney could not even cite it in
    a brief.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, but that's wrong, on at least three points.\r\n\r\n<cite>What's
    being played is a game of legal brinksmanship and it won't be the litigant or
    the lawyer in that one particular case who \"loses\" - it will be the entire type
    community at large</cite>\r\n\r\nThat, I agree with. A motivated defendant can
    cause new law to be made that is adverse to future plaintiffs.\r\n\r\nBut this
    is all theoretical. To go back to my original comment earlier in this thread,
    a side effect of the \"flourishing\" of the type industry is that litigation is
    a less efficient use of capital than marketing.\r\n\r\nAs others have said, copyright
    law is just not a big factor in how the font industry operates. In the US, it
    wouldn't surprise me at all if Adobe v. SSI ends up being the last word on the
    issue."
  created: '2011-10-27 15:52:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>As others have said, copyright law is just not a big factor in how the
    font industry operates. In the US, it wouldn't surprise me at all if Adobe v.
    SSI ends up being the last word on the issue.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. The case was
    important because at the time there were companies seeking to make a business
    from essentially repackaging and reselling fonts, which is why it was tackled
    as a classic copyright violation, the same as republishing a book without permission.
    Since Judge Whyte's summary judgement in that case, that business model has mostly
    evaporated or, at least, no longer attempts to claim legitimacy and operate in
    plain sight. But I think the judgement, and the pause it gave to such unlicensed
    repackagers and resellers, was only partially responsible for the decline of that
    business model. Equally or more important has been the development of unlicensed
    font distribution via torrents and other online channels: why would someone pay
    $X for a CD of renamed fonts when they can download the originals for free?"
  created: '2011-10-27 22:05:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"It's not a published opinion and it has absolutely no force as precedent.
    An attorney could not even cite it in a brief. It is not binding on any court,
    even in the same district.\"\r\n\r\nYou say something like that, which as Matthew
    points out is wrong on at least three counts, and wonder why we don't take you
    seriously on font legal stuff?\r\n\r\nMy \"views are a pass-along of stuff he's
    been told by lawyers working for Adobe and a lawyer for litigants like Font Bureau.\"\r\n\r\nNot
    entirely. They are a combination of reading a lot (including case law), AND talking
    to lawyers a lot. And not only lawyers working for foundries.\r\n\r\n\"Thomas
    loves type and the type community and should he feel those things being threatened
    and should his considerable powers of reason and analysis fail him as a result,
    I would understand anyway. \"\r\n\r\nDon't insinuate if you're not willing to
    accuse. And in this case, even the insinuation is unfair. Although I do have plenty
    of strong feelings about matters typographic, they don't particularly color my
    judgment on questions of business, history and legality. I have a pretty long
    track record of dispassionate analysis: I'm hardly a fan of George W. Bush, but
    came out against the authenticity of the Killian memos, for example.\r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear: I think that US law is \"reasonably settled\" on the question of
    whether common digital outline fonts are covered by copyright as software, and
    that they are. By \"reasonably settled\" I mean that there is some case law and
    precedent, and that all the major parties involved seem to agree on the nature
    of legal reality on the general issue. Also that, as Matthew Butterick said, it's
    not at all apparent that anybody will (ever? say within my lifetime, anyway) have
    sufficient motivation to seriously re-open the issue in court, in hopes of getting
    a contrary outcome, which I expect would take years and cost millions of dollars.
    No single party has enough to gain, as far as I can tell. It's my belief that
    even if somebody did pursue it, they'd have a less than 50/50 chance of changing
    the current status quo. Not at all impossible, just worse than even odds.\r\n\r\nAs
    a separable and distinct question, I also believe that considering fonts to be
    software for purposes of copyright is reasonable. I think this is a much more
    hotly contested question however, and plenty of smart and well-informed people
    are on each side of that particular fence.\r\n\r\nBut that's a separate question
    from \"what's the status quo.\" So, until or unless somebody contests it in court,
    there is a common understanding, and nobody big enough to be well worth suing
    has been violating that understanding without getting chased by the copyright
    holders.\r\n\r\nI wish that the abstract design of a typeface were protected under
    copyright law in the USA, but that's just not the case, and I wouldn't pretend
    otherwise. As best as I understand it, taking a current retail-licensed font,
    printing it out at large size, scanning it back to a bitmap, and tracing outlines
    from that does not infringe the copyright on the font software. It may be a contract
    violation if the person doing it licensed the font, and the license forbids it.
    It is normally unethical. But not AFAIK illegal unless the typeface is protected
    by design patent, which is rare.\r\n\r\nThis is just one of several cases where
    my belief about the state of font copyright law is quite the opposite of what
    I would like...."
  created: '2011-10-28 23:37:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I find it sad, and personally, offensive that the legal system has no reasonable,
    verifiable, fair to all, and absolute way of protecting the original visual design
    of a typeface.  It bothers me, yes, because I am one of the few hundred people
    in he world who chooses  to design type.  I am glad that at least there is some
    kind of alternative way to hold back the hordes of ripoff artists who would surely
    take a shot at type design piracy if the \"software\" laws were not in place.
    \ As unfair as they may seem to the few hundred practitioners of type design,
    it is still the only tool at our disposal.\r\n\r\nThomas (above) mentioned the
    \"legal\" procedure that a font pirate could follow and not be prosecuted under
    current laws.  Surely this is not \"airtight\" protection.  It does possess one
    very significant deterrent to thieves and pirates.  It involves many hours of
    work (and reasonable skill).   \r\n\r\nAfter all, thieves and pirates become thieves
    and pirates to avoid the \"many hours of work\" honest men accept as needed. Without
    this \"Work-around\" called software similarity, all a thief has to do is duplicate
    someone else's font files and that is hardly any work.\r\n\r\n Although I pride
    myself as a man who does not believe in violence, I must admit that I chuckle
    to myself at the thought of planting a bit of code in a font that would flawlessly
    determine if the file were a legitimate one or not. Those found to be tainted
    would proceed to melt the host computer into a foul smelling blob of vermin that
    clung forever to the guilty culprit--Fun thought but quite impossible so I will
    make myself content with the knowledge that thieves hate work.\r\n\r\nAbove all,
    I don't want to punish our good paying customers for their honesty by making them
    bear the burden created by the thieves and pirates who roam free.  If we cannot
    always punish the guilty, then let us surely add no misery to the innocent purchasers
    of our wares instead."
  created: '2011-10-29 01:10:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"It does possess one very significant deterrent to thieves and pirates.
    It involves many hours of work (and reasonable skill).\r\n\r\nAbsolutely agreed.
    The status quo of digital font IP in America, while arguably goofy, is sufficient
    to deter almost all commercial font piracy. (By this I mean pirating and reselling
    fonts.) As a result, I believe the benefits to a more rational approach are more
    theoretical than practical. Protecting designs instead of (or in addition to)
    font software will have zero impact on people who are already violating the law
    as it exists today.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-29 02:16:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@dezcom:\r\n<cite>Thomas (above) mentioned the \"legal\" procedure that a
    font pirate could follow and not be prosecuted under current laws. Surely this
    is not \"airtight\" protection. It does possess one very significant deterrent
    to thieves and pirates. It involves many hours of work (and reasonable skill).</cite>\r\n\r\nSince
    there is even an open-source add-on to an open-source font creation program that
    traces outlines automatically, if a thief is content with poor-quality copies
    of existing typefaces, even the deterrent you cite appears to be absent."
  created: '2011-10-29 16:34:18'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "I would assume that people who would be content with a poor quality copy
    wouldn't buy a font in the first place.\r\n\r\nThere will always be thieves \u2013
    every industry has them. I think instead of trying to create new legal ways to
    protect typefaces (which, it seems, most would not want to spend the money to
    enforce \u2013 not that I blame them), the most likely deterrent is to make it
    so that it is harder to copy fonts in a technical sense. Like dezcom said, the
    thief, it seems, tries to avoid many hours of work. If it takes many hours of
    work to remove a font from a pdf, that is more of a deterrent than any law would
    be.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-29 19:16:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>the most likely deterrent is...</em>\r\n\r\nA few broken legs?"
  created: '2011-10-30 00:05:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@John\r\n\r\nMy old buddy Jack retired from his day job back in the 1980s.
    \ I wonder if he might be available in a new position--as the lead officer on
    typeface anti-piracy enforcement? He was known to have rearranged a few skeletal
    sidebearings in his day ;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lambert_4769.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-30 04:22:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "When I have the energy and the time, I try to be a pain in the ass on as
    many threads and forums as possible. I lost all track of this one, and I wanted
    to pick up on something Butterick wrote.\r\n\r\n(BTW - Love Dezcom's pic. And
    having grown up in Brooklyn during the era of \"Goodfellas\", I'm familiar with
    the Tony Soprano school of dispute resolution. And that's all I'll say about THAT
    except to say that you couldn't do business in the apparel industry of New York
    without having to deal with certain kinds of people.)\r\n\r\n@butterick\r\n\r\nRE:
    The reasoning in Judge Whyte's comments.\r\n\r\nWhen I first read it, I half bought
    the notion being promulgated by Adobe. In fact, I spent several hours a few months
    back with somebody quite into the open source movement, and it came up in casual
    conversation and HE bought that reasoning, too. (A lot of people active in open-source
    do so out of purely philosphical or political disposition. I've been suprised
    at how little the actual details of the law figure in their thinking.)\r\n\r\nBut
    Whyte is completely erroneous. And my even half-buying into it stems from a fundamental
    misunderstanding of what constitutes protectable expression under copyright law.\r\nA
    big part of the reason, I think, is that the copyright industries spend hundreds
    of millions of dollars a year to obfuscate the issue and frame it to their advantage
    - it's an ongoing and unceasing political campaign - and so it takes awhile to
    undo the confusion from that. It effects lawyers and judges, too, obviously. After
    all, that's where the payoff is.\r\n\r\nFirst, the notion that there is choice
    in the selection of points is dubious to begin with, but let's let that go and
    assume there is choice.\r\nJust because there is choice, it does not follow that
    there is protectable expression. Can you copyright a color scheme? There's choice,
    right?\r\nIs the choice of route between two destinations - like those chosen
    by Google Maps and Mapquest - copyrightable? After all, there's choice. (I bet
    the lawyers DID give that one some thought.)\r\n\r\nA failure to connect choice
    and protectable expression is missing in Whyte's writing. But like I said, he
    was deciding a case, wrote this and that, and the opinion wasn't published. Like
    a lot of judges, I think his concept of the technical issues was dim, to say the
    least.\r\n\r\nOne of the reasons I write comments in forums - unpaid work - is
    for the same reason experienced stand-up comics play small comedy clubs for free
    - to try out new ideas.\r\n\r\nAnd I came away from this thread with the spark
    of an idea for writing about the law as a technology of sorts. We talk about the
    \"legal <strong>system</strong>\". And where there is a system, there is, at a
    minimum, a set of interrelated parts working together as a part of an overarching
    scheme - a technology of sorts. In fact, I've heard lawyers refer to what ordinary
    people would call \"forms\" - stuff to be filed with the court to get a certain
    result - as \"instruments\". And this helps to strengthen my instinct that it's
    a line of thought worth pursuing. I'm just wondering now if anybody has ever taken
    the same tack.\r\n\r\n'nuff said.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-09 17:23:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A lot of disciplines borrow techno-scientific terms to impress themselves,
    and others, with how logical and rational they are.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure who you
    mean by \"copyright industries\", but it is not just those who produce creative
    content\u2014copyright is also fundamental to the emergence of packaged goods.\r\n\r\nUltimately
    every business needs to be able to protect its brand\u2014consider the origin
    of that term, and the penalty in the Old West for pirating a brand or branded
    property.\r\n\r\nI'm sure you can exploit the metaphor of law-as-technology, because
    there is a similarity in all human-formulated systems.\r\nFor instance, mechanical
    servo systems and biological ecosystems operate on feedback, and are hence cybernetic.\r\n\r\nAs
    John von Neumann, father of game theory, put it, \"The territory is not the map.\""
  created: '2011-11-09 20:08:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nickshinn\r\n\r\n>A lot of disciplines borrow techno-scientific terms\r\n>to
    impress themselves, and others, with how logical and rational they are.\r\n\r\nTrue.
    I've certainly seen it. In some cases though, it's not pomp but a linguistic holdover
    from days of yore.\r\nI believe you can now search through Google Books to find
    fairly precisely when a particular term first appeared.  Amazing.\r\n\r\n>Ultimately
    every business needs to be able to protect its\r\n>brand\r\n\r\nNo they don't.
    Why? What's the benefit to them?\r\n\r\n>\u2014consider the origin of that term,
    and the penalty in\r\n>the Old West for pirating a brand or branded property.\r\n\r\nSo
    colorful. But, uh, I think you've seen too many episodes of Bonanza.\r\n\r\nTrademark
    did not come about to help business. A trademark might prove helpful if the trademarked
    item does well. But the trademarked item can just as easily fail, and the trademark
    won't help you a bit.\r\n\r\nNo, trademark came about to avoid confusion in the
    minds of the buying public. It's a public good, not some kind of corporate welfare.
    And I think it's useful, if sometimes abused. At least it comes with some responsibilities
    on the part of the trademark holder.\r\n\r\nI'm not surprised you present it as
    something <strong>for business</strong>, and not the public, though. Like I said,
    it's amazing what hundreds of millions of dollars a year in spin can do over time.
    So I forgive you.\r\n\r\n(Nick: Nothing to do with this thread, but you're just
    the man I wanted to speak to about something. Sending you an email shortly. Hoping
    you'll be able to oblige. :)\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\nOh yes, \"I'm sure you can exploit
    the metaphor of law-as-technology, because there is a similarity in all human-formulated
    systems.\"\r\n\r\nYes, I think there's something, I'm not sure what exactly yet,
    there.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-10 04:10:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Rich, yes trademarks exist to avoid confusion in the market, but a trademark
    is also an asset. It is something that the trademark holder can sell, license
    etc.; this is why companies defend their trademarks, to uphold their value.
  created: '2011-11-10 18:04:23'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Copyright industries are those that exist to exploit or by exploiting copyrights.
  created: '2011-11-10 19:01:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\xA9 and \u2122 here too!? Snakes alive."
  created: '2011-11-10 19:45:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>No, trademark came about to avoid confusion in the minds of the buying
    public. It's a public good, not some kind of corporate welfare.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    mass market for packaged goods emerged as a system that benefitted both producers
    and consumers, and in between enabled the advertising industry and boosted mass
    media exponentially. Trademarking was an integral part of the system, so that
    a company might advertise in publications distributed nationwide, and have merchants
    and consumers in every town identify its products. \r\n\r\nIn 1882 Harley Procter
    put a wrapper around a bulk product, branded it Ivory Soap, and placed ads for
    it in Ladies Home Journal, kickstarting consumer culture.  Ad revenue dropped
    the price of magazines, circulation soared, and product shifted. Feedback loop.\r\n\r\n<em>I'm
    not surprised you present it as something for business, and not the public, though.
    Like I said, it's amazing what hundreds of millions of dollars a year in spin
    can do over time. So I forgive you.</em>\r\n\r\nI appreciate the forgiving mood
    you've been in recently (noblesse oblige). However, your attribution of my brainwashing
    is mistaken\u2014my emphasis on the economic genesis of trademarks comes more
    from being indoctrinated by Marxists at a tender age than from my career in commerce.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-10 21:23:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Do trademarks benefit businesses, or the public?\r\n\r\nI should think both.\r\n\r\nIf
    they benefit the public by allowing them to know who is behind the products they
    buy, then clearly they also benefit the businessman who produces the quality products
    they prefer, by protecting him from losing business to disguised imitations.\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is why the law, not just recently, but even at the beginning, treated trademarks
    as the property of businesses, since it was simplest to leave to the individual
    business the responsibility of protecting its own trademark."
  created: '2011-11-10 22:29:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Do trademarks help everyone more or less than no trademarks allowed?  Kinda
    like asking if any imperfect system is better than no system at all.\r\nThe devil
    is in the details either way. Whatever system used will become favorable to the
    wealthy and powerful as well as the devious and unscrupulous.  The rest of us
    will get a little something out of it and hopefully enough to be better off than
    with the total chaos of anything goes.\r\nI wonder how these 2 expressions came
    about? \"Who said life was fair\" and \"Nice guys finish last\""
  created: '2011-11-11 05:11:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Not to forget how trademarks seep into the collective conscious. Ya Merkins
    still fed-ex parcels, don't you, even if it's not always by Federal Express?\r\n\r\nWe
    still have willyses and primuses here in Iceland. Willy's Jeep is long gone, but
    the CJ is still a willys. AFAIK, the Swedish company Primus still makes portable
    stoves."
  created: '2011-11-11 13:33:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Rich: \"and the opinion wasn't published\"\r\n\r\nI was under the impression
    that the published/unpublished distinction only exists at the appellate and higher
    levels, not at a regular federal district court. Is this not the case?\r\n\r\nBut
    aside from that, I think your comment on why you think Whyte was wrong was the
    clearest statement you've made on that, after much general objection. I don't
    think I agree with you, as a typeface consists of hundreds or thousands of such
    tiny decisions. But it's the most plausible argument I've heard.\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-14 17:45:23'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Not sure about the apropriateness of giving the source of this. Let it go
    at, an attorney familiar with fonts, that's all:\r\n\r\n\"An unpublished district
    court opinion is not precedent in that no court is obligated to follow its decision,
    including other judges in the same district court. You may or may not even be
    able to cite to it in a brief to the same district court (though sometimes you
    might because judges in a district court probably know each other well and might
    be influenced by how their fellow judges ruled). \r\n\r\nThe citation for Adobe
    v. Southern Software is this: Adobe Sys. Inc. v. S. Software, Inc., No. C 95-20710
    RMW (PVT), 1998 WL 104303 (N.D. Cal. Feb. 2, 1998). This case was not published
    in the Federal Supplement, or even the Federal Appendix. The first set of numbers
    after the case name is simply the district court number assigned to the case.
    The second set of numbers (following the comma) is a citation to Westlaw's database
    (indicated by \"WL\").  The parentheses indicates that the decision was issued
    in the Northern District of California in 1998. (If this case had been published
    officially in the Federal Supplement, the cite would look something like: Adobe
    Sys. Inc. v. S. Software, Inc., 50 F. Supp. 3d 100 (N.D. Cal. 1998).) So the case
    is officially unpublished, though its inclusion in Westlaw's database is usually
    afforded at least a little influence. But nobody is obliged to follow the decision
    as precedent. The case is really only important to another court, even in the
    same district, to the extent that its reasoning is persuasive. And that, really,
    is the debate: is it persuasive? It does not stand for the blanket proposition
    that computer fonts are copyrightable throughout the land, as everyone seems to
    have taken for granted. Computer fonts are not even necessarily copyrightable
    in the Northern District of California. \r\n\r\nJust because a decision is not
    officially published doesn't mean you can't find it on the internet. There are
    lots of them out there, and they are useful and informative to many people, but
    they are not precedent.\""
  created: '2011-11-15 16:10:46'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Note the difference between mandatory and persuasive authority. This gives
    a fairly good summary: \r\n\r\n[[http://faculty.law.lsu.edu/toddbruno/mandatory_v__persuasive.htm]]\r\n\r\nAlso
    see:\r\n<a href=\"https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:CfDlzv4IgeMJ:www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/RulesAndPolicies/rules/Unpub_Opinions.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESgYUxO8Z1z18PaqhrEgqHq30FlPy_6fXzgsaRWZIV_eMDkTPvlSRGY-_xzy3vFxgfvAIf1WlwQuVWIP_Qw4TcCJaj0SA4XJADoT7Fqd6k_xH4jMqIF3vXlmcm9KuPSbQWkHt2G_&sig=AHIEtbQNDhndobgiPEa9R_2CBTk0yTwtlQ\">Circuit
    Citation Rules (Unpublished Opinions)</a>\r\n\r\n<cite>And that, really, is the
    debate: is it persuasive? It does not stand for the blanket proposition that computer
    fonts are copyrightable throughout the land, as everyone seems to have taken for
    granted.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt isn't mandatory authority, but the reasoning isn't unfounded.
    (And it has been cited a handful of times over the years according to Westlaw.)
    It also offers the argument that 57 Fed.Reg. 35 (February 12, 1992) (\u201CRegistrability
    of Computer Programs that Generate Typefaces\u201D) supercedes the previous stance
    of the Copyright Office that fonts didn't count as protectable software. The language
    of 57 Fed.Reg. 35 is doesn't seem all that equivocal\u2014\r\n\r\nThe portion
    reproduced in Adobe v. SSI:\r\n\r\n<cite>After a careful review of the testimony
    and the written comments, the Copyright Office is persuaded that creating scalable
    typefonts using already digitized typeface represents a significant change in
    the industry since our previous Policy Decision. We are also persuaded that computer
    programs designed for generating typeface in conjunction with low resolution and
    other printing devices may involve original computer instructions entitled to
    protection under the Copyright Act. For example, the creation of scalable font
    output programs to produce harmonious fonts consisting of hundreds of characters
    typically involves many decisions in drafting the instructions that drive the
    printer. The expression of these decisions is neither limited by the unprotectible
    shape of the letters nor functionally mandated. This expression, assuming it meets
    the usual standard of authorship, is thus registrable as a computer program.</cite>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-16 03:39:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Ehague\r\n\r\nThank you for the links.\r\n\r\n>but the reasoning isn't unfounded.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not familiar enough with what the term \"unfounded\" means in this context to
    argue one way or the other. If you want to substitute the words \"makes sense\",
    I'm ready to go.\r\n\r\n>(And it has been cited a handful of times over the years
    according to Westlaw.)\r\n\r\nWhat sort of citations? Where and by who and the
    purpose the citation served makes a big difference. Could you post them here?
    I don't have a Westlaw account.\r\n\r\n>The language of 57 Fed.Reg. 35 is doesn't
    seem all that equivocal\r\n\r\nI'd like to go back and read \"The language of
    57 Fed.Reg. 35\" and I'll get back to you.\r\nIt seems like 57 Fed.Reg. 35 and
    Adobe v SSI are getting mixed together there, and I'd like to separate the two.\r\nAlso,
    policy decisions regarding registrability are exactly that: decisions regarding
    registrability. It is no guarantee of anything. A valid registration is neither
    a mandatory NOR a persuasive authority.\r\nEspecially since nearly all works consist
    of protectable and unprotectable elements. How could it mean anything?\r\n\r\nThe
    idea that registration counts for something, leads the general public to believe
    that simply because they can obtain a registration of copyright, the work necessarily
    has protection. And nothing could be further from the truth.\r\nIt's no more protectable
    than if they had done nothing and saved the fee. The geniuses (or whores, I think
    it's fair to say) in Congress have imparted protection as soon as the expression
    is fixed in a tangible form, with no further ado.\r\n\r\nThis is big point of
    confusion for a lot of people, and needs to be cleared up. So thanks for bringing
    it up.\r\n\r\n(There's a book on copyright named: <em>Freedom Of Expression</em>
    by Kembrew McLeod. As an exercise in the absurd, McLeod trademarked the expression
    \"Freedom Of Expression\" which appears like this: Freedom Of Expression&trade;
    throughout the book.\r\nI don't know about other readers, but it got a laugh out
    of me every time. [It's a book worth reading if you're into this stuff and you
    can get it real cheap. Not an A list title.] I just got to thinking about it in
    relation to the USPTO and registrability. I have the feeling I could get registration
    for a novel titled The Great White Whale that, outside of the title, reads exactly
    the same as Melville's book on the same theme. That wouldn't mean much in court
    would it?)\r\n\r\nBut I'll check it all out.\r\n\r\n\r\nUh, just discovered your
    link to Citations Rules takes me to a page on the Typophile Wiki section.  ??\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-16 05:16:53'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "[ I just fixed the Citations Rules link in Eric\u2019s post. I don\u2019t
    think the shortcut link method likes \u201Chttps\u201D for some reason. That shortcut
    has been buggy for a while, anyway. Link should work now. ]"
  created: '2011-11-16 14:34:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kentlew\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n@ehague\r\n\r\nIf you'd be so kind, my request
    for the citations still stands. However, because of time factors - I'd love to
    argue from all angles - I decided to cut to the chase.\r\nYe olde bottom line.\r\n\r\nCheck
    out the case \"Meshworks v Toyota\". In that case, the court held that vector
    depictions of Toyota cars - exactly like fonts are depictions of typefaces - are
    \"slavish imitations\" of the cars by digital means and therefore not copyrightable.
    The appeals court upheld the lower courts ruling, (a good thing for the \"strength\"
    of the precedent), and denied the plaintiffs a copyright on the vector-based depictions
    of the cars. The decision was even humorously apologetic with a \"nice try, but
    sorry, you're screwed\" kind of tone to it.\r\n\r\nThe court ACKNOWLEDGED that
    there was choice, acknowledged that there was great labor, but still, in line
    with clear precedents, like Feist, in essence told the plaintiffs that their copyright
    registration was good for nothing.\r\n\r\nAll you have to do is substitute the
    word \"typeface\" for \"cars\" and the reasoning will lead you to exactly the
    same result. Eldred doesn't even enter into it, but it is, I guess, additional
    bad news.\r\n\r\nMeshworks has been written about quite a bit.\r\n\r\nUh, Typophilers
    - don't get in a snit about \"slavish imitation'. It's no slur and doesn't necessarily
    mean, literally, slavish imitation. If Hague responds, I'll explain."
  created: '2011-11-16 16:45:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In that case, the court held that vector depictions of Toyota cars -
    exactly like fonts are depictions of typefaces - are \"slavish imitations\" of
    the cars by digital means and therefore not copyrightable.</em>\r\n\r\nThe problem
    with this analysis is that in the case of a car, the car is the product and the
    vectors are the design, while in the case of a font, the vectors are the product
    and the design, these days, typically has no independent existence. A font is
    not a depiction of a typeface; a font is a computer program (according to the
    generous definition of the USCO) that in combination with other computer programs
    displays encoded characters on screen, in print, or other media. The point of
    Judge Whyte's analysis -- which was also mine at the time, in debates with the
    owner of SSi -- is that the choice of point placement in the vectors affects the
    display in different ways and the way in which the outlines interact with other
    aspects of the font software (notably hints, also interpolation algorithms etc.),
    and therefore their placement is not determined by a pre-existing design. In other
    words, you're begging the question, because the judgement you are challenging
    explicitly contradicts your challenge in affirming that font outlines are <em>not</em>
    imitations, slavish or otherwise, of a typeface.\r\n\r\nI call myself a type designer
    because that is the common term for what I do, and because I like the associations
    with a long history of past practice and people whom I admire. But what I actually
    do every day is create fonts, a large part of which is a design process, but what
    I am designing isn't a typeface that is then depicted by a font: what I am designing,
    with more or less precision, is the various ways in which encoded text set in
    the font will appear."
  created: '2011-11-16 19:24:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If a tree falls in the woods, and nobody sees it on YouTube, does it still
    cut it?
  created: '2011-11-16 21:11:07'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Here are two cases that apparently didn't get all the way to trial but which
    nonetheless cited Adobe v. SSI. \r\n\r\nITC v. Adobe, 2004 WL 2814678 (N.D.Ill.)
    \r\nMonotype v. Red Hat, Inc., 2002 WL 32678232 (N.D.Ill.)\r\n\r\nWestlaw lists
    another 39 cites to cases, treatises, and secondary sources. \r\n\r\nThe fact
    of the matter is that there just isn't a lot of case law on this subject. Though
    Adobe v. SSI exerts no power as mandatory precedent, it is more directly on point
    to the subject of the copyrightability of digital fonts than is, say, the Toyota
    case.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong\u2014the Toyota case certainly lines up the arguments
    whereby the selection of control points might not be considered sufficient to
    engender a crucial modicum of originality (though the opinion's \"creative labor\"
    language seems to go further than the precedent it cites). However, a few distinguishing
    points\u2014\r\n\r\n1. When I said \"unfounded\" I was referring to the Adobe
    court's reasoning's basis in the Fed. Reg. that speaks directly to the copyrightability
    of digital fonts as software. The Toyota court analogizes heavily to cases dealing
    with per se copyrightability of photography because, as it acknowledges, vectorization
    is sort of new ground and there isn't a lot of precedent (or a convenient statement
    coming from the Copyright Office) on the issue.\r\n\r\n2. There's also the issue
    of the \"slavish copying.\" The characterization of the creation of a bezier outline
    of a character in a digital font as a transcriptive, pseudo-mechanical task makes
    sense to a degree when one is talking about digitizing a sketch, say. But when
    the creation of the unprotectable expression is concurrent with and inextricable
    from the digitization of it, it's hard to avoid regressing into the argument that
    typeface design is a highly creative process that ought to receive protection.\r\n\r\nThe
    danger in going against Adobe v. SSI is that it would upset a great deal of settled
    expectations as far as contracts/licensing digital fonts goes. That was the tradeoff
    in Toyota\u2014sure, there's something to be gained when a court tries to keep
    the originality requirement from getting too soft, but here this company was thinking
    it had contracted to produce something that would require further licensing if
    Toyota's contractor wished to use the vectors further, only to get burned when
    it realized it had negotiated something it couldn't claim rights to. "
  created: '2011-11-17 01:59:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "R.F. -- <cite>One question: do you know anything about how fonts are constructed?
    What they actually are? THAT I'd really like to hear in your own words.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne
    answer: Read the spec. What are you asking for? \"The OpenType Specification Retold
    \xB7 Now Rhyming\"?\r\n\r\nGiven the amount of words you offer, could you please
    summarize what your point is, in a few words?"
  created: '2011-11-18 10:29:51'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ehague\r\n\r\n>The danger in going against Adobe v. SSI is that it would\r\n>upset
    a great deal of settled expectations as far as\r\n>contracts/licensing digital
    fonts goes.\r\n\r\nWrong. And I have no idea what you mean by the phrase \"settled
    expectations\".\r\nLook, it's simple: one judge wrote something that doesn't matter
    as precedent.\r\nThose with an interest in insisting that fonts were copyrightable
    software jumped on it and blew it out of proportion out of self-interest. So what
    else is new?\r\n\r\n>\"The Toyota court analogizes heavily to cases dealing with
    per se copyrightability of photography because, as it acknowledges, vectorization
    is sort of new ground and there isn't a lot of precedent (or a convenient statement
    coming from the Copyright Office) on the issue.\"\r\n\r\nAlso wrong. They don't
    analogize at all. They cite and explain the case law upon which their decision
    is based. Legal scholars expert in copyright have called it a very well-reasoned
    opinion. Read the decisions cited. The court in Meshworks isn't winging it.\r\nAnd
    it's an appeals decision, too. \r\nThere's nothing equivocal about it.\r\n\r\nOne
    question: do you know anything about how fonts are constructed? What they actually
    are? THAT I'd really like to hear in your own words.\r\n\r\nAnd if you think the
    USPTO decides what's protectable, or even has a great influence on court decisions,
    go ahead, believe that.\r\n\r\nUh, frankly, I detect some partisanship here. A
    desire to find a result. Even if it's fog. Not an effort to find out how things
    really stand. Your thumbnail synopsis of the case is way off.\r\n\r\nThanks for
    the links, once again. And good luck with your research. Hopefully you'll be able
    to make it available when done.\r\n\r\nIncidentally - I don't know if the page
    is still there, but when Meshworks was decided, William Patry wrote a bit about
    it on his blog. Interestingly, an IP lawyer in LA commented on the connection
    between the vector-based renderings done by Meshworks, and fonts.\r\n\r\nIf your
    argument is that vector outlines are a kind of protectable expression separate
    and apart from the expression produced when those vector outlines are interpreted
    and rendered, go for it.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-18 16:36:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Hey, Cool Hand! Hope all is well.\r\n[Just the man I want to talk to but
    not about this. I need to know if a FontLab Python script is doable for something
    and if you can do it and at what price. Expect an email.]\r\n\r\nAnd since it
    IS you, I'll answer:\r\n\r\nThe question was born of time-wasting experience while
    discussing this stuff with attorneys.\r\nNot one of them had any idea how, technically,
    a font was put together. And that adds a kind of mystery to the discusion that
    I'm detecting with ehague. Ehague is vague (hey, that rhymes!)on the point and
    the nature of a font's construction is a critical \"fact\" in the legal sense.\r\nThat
    a font is not \"code\" as people would normally conceive of it, but rather a database
    containing labels and numbers is very important.\r\nHence, OpenType \"Tables\".
    Tabular data. Every attorney I've spoken to, was rather taken aback by that.  \"You
    mean that's all it is?\" was the usual response.\r\n\r\nI'm technical. You're
    technical. We have the background to read the OpenType spec and understand what
    it says. (You moreso than me, I'm sure.)\r\nTelling a a lawyer or a judge to \"go
    read the OpenType Spec\" is not only counter-productive, but you don't talk to
    judges or write briefs that way.\r\n\r\nDoes that cover it? Or did you have a
    different point in interjecting?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest</a>"
  created: '2011-11-18 17:17:40'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "1. The Toyota court analogized to a better-developed realm of case law than
    that which existed for the precise subject matter it was dealing with. Analogy
    is a perfectly respectable mode of legal reasoning. \r\n\r\n2. Toyota is precedent
    in the circuit in which it was decided (10th circuit). It is binding on other
    10th Cir. courts. Otherwise it works as persuasive authority on courts in other
    circuits. \r\n\r\n3. Settled expectations is a legal concept that refers to situations
    in which parties have operated for some time under the belief that, for example,
    they have property rights in something or that a contract they are party to is
    valid. The entire digital font industry believes it has a property interest in
    its digital fonts and has become party to innumerable licensing agreements as
    a result. This is just one thing a court or legislature might consider if it were
    going to completely abrogate copyright in digital fonts.\r\n\r\n4. Fonts are created
    using a) selection of bezier points that best fit the contours of a glyph sought
    to be described (and the contours of other glyphs that the glyph must be harmonized
    with) b) the setting of sidebearings c) the programming of any substitution, class
    kerning, etc. d) any other incidental choices (e.g., how the hinting will be handled,
    how the font will appear in font menus). Am I missing anything important? \r\n\r\nBeyond
    that I think I'm done arguing this. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-11-18 18:16:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I wouldn't say that bezier points are selected to FIT a contour.\r\nThe contour
    doesn't exist until the BCPs define it.\r\nBezier points are used to CREATE and
    define/fix a contour, just as graphite is used to realize a line when drawing
    with a pencil.\r\nThe hand-tool that does the digital drawing may be a mouse,
    stylus, track ball or track pad.\r\nMake no mistake, this is hand-eye-brain feedback-loop
    DRAWING\u2014I don't know any type designers who create glyphs by typing numbers."
  created: '2011-11-18 18:58:41'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>Look, it's simple: one judge wrote something that doesn't matter as
    precedent.\r\nThose with an interest in insisting that fonts were copyrightable
    software jumped on it and blew it out of proportion out of self-interest. So what
    else is new?</cite>\r\n\r\nRichard, your argument no longer merits response, since
    you refuse to acknowledge the errors of law, reasoning, evidence, and common sense
    that have already piled up."
  created: '2011-11-18 19:21:00'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "@Nick\r\n\r\nI agree that \"fit\" isn't the right word on a practical level.
    I was just trying to honor the artificial legal distinction between the creation
    of a (non-copyrightable) typeface and the rendering of it through (copyrightable)
    description in vectors. "
  created: '2011-11-18 21:16:37'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "<em>I don't know any type designers who create glyphs by typing numbers.</em>\r\nThis
    is very close: [[http://www.typophile.com/node/73827]]."
  created: '2011-11-18 22:11:27'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n\"It is something that the trademark holder can sell, license
    etc.; this is why companies defend their trademarks, to uphold their value.\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    trademarks are transferable. But I'll say it again - if the product stinks, or
    stank, the trademark is worth little to nothing because it's use will only bring
    negative reactions. I'm not sure I'm seeing a point here.\r\n\r\nThe best way
    to defend a trademark is simple - use the name to market a great product or product
    line.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard Fink</a>\r\nBlog:
    <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-18 22:43:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "\"Richard, your argument no longer merits response, since you refuse to acknowledge
    the errors of law, reasoning, evidence, and common sense that have already piled
    up.\"\r\n\r\nOy vey. I try to get away, put they keep pulling me back. To cop
    Al Pacino's line from Godfather III.\r\n\r\nBe specific about these errors of
    law, reasoning, evidence and common sense that you see and I'll respond to them
    one by one. How's that.\r\n\r\n'Cause I'm not seeing these things. And besides,
    there's far more arguments I could make, and will, but not here. But if you want
    to deal with what you say is convincing stuff supporting \"fonts as copyrightable
    software\", that exists on this thread as it stands, I'm all ears.\r\nBecause
    all I give a hoot about is laying out all of the court decisions that may apply,
    look at the history of it, weigh whether the numbers in a table which describe
    a typeface qualify - independently of the typeface - as protectable \"expression\",
    and wherever the chips fall, they fall. I really don't give a damn where they
    fall.\r\n\r\nIn other words, if you say there's a case to be made here for \"fonts
    as copyrightable software\" make it. And I'll respond point by point. The onus
    is on you, you've made a claim.\r\n\r\nIn other words - wanna piece of me? Bring
    it on. But keep it restricted to what's already been presented here.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-18 22:55:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Richard Fink:\r\n<cite>The best way to defend a trademark is simple - use
    the name to market a great product or product line.</cite>\r\n\r\nOdd. I thought
    that was the thing one had to do in the first place to have a trademark likely
    to be infringed upon, and one that was worth defending (by the other means of
    litigation).\r\n\r\nIn the absence of that, the best thing to do is to change
    one's trademark frequently, to confuse one's previous customers into buying from
    you again."
  created: '2011-11-26 18:20:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Knock-off vendors don't even have to pay for a logo design or even advertising!  They
    simply steal the original guys stuff and laugh about it.  I wonder how many REAL
    Gucci bags have been sold?  Too bad Gucci did not have mob connections, they would
    have made the knock-off guys many offers too good to refuse ;-)
  created: '2011-11-26 19:13:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@quadribloc\r\nOdd. I thought that was the thing one had to do in the first
    place to have a trademark likely to be infringed upon, and one that was worth
    defending (by the other means of litigation).\r\n\r\nI think we're using defending
    in different senses of the word. You are correct. And me too. IMHO.\r\n\r\n@dezcom\r\n\r\nWhat
    you're describing is fraud. Pure and simple.\r\nBut what's interesting is that
    the customers - women from all walks of life, married and single - are not fooled
    one bit, in fact they are complicit in the deception. So what do you make of that?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nYeah,
    let's put these ladies in jail!\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/rosco-photo/3495354031/sizes/z/in/photostream/\r\n\r\nHere's
    an article from the Virginia Law Review:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.virginialawreview.org/articles.php?article=76\">Shopping
    For Gucci On Canal Street: Reflection On Status Consumption Intellectual Property
    and the Incentive Thesis</a>\r\n\r\nBTW - I think Gucci, as a company, is doing
    quite fine, last I checked. The literally poor bastards selling knock-off bags
    off of folding tables on Seventh Avenue, not so good, last time I checked.\r\nIn
    the handbag trade it pays a lot better to be the ripped off, not the ripper.\r\n\r\n\r\nFar
    from putting a hit out, Gucci should pay for the marketing effort.\r\n\r\n(Moderator:
    looks like the previous comment about online gambling is spam.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-27 03:20:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Lineto has recently plagiarized a trade name (Brown) I've been using for
    several years.\r\nI asked them to change the name, but they have ignored me.\r\nI
    really don't want to instruct my lawyer to go after them (in Switzerland).\r\nTheir
    font isn't a copy of mine, but they are both sans serifs.\r\n\r\nI don't usually
    register trade names, as it seems to me to be an unnecessary expense in such a
    \"small\" industry.\r\nNonetheless, it does seem that their action has lessened
    the value of my intellectual property."
  created: '2011-11-27 04:50:04'
date: '2011-10-06 14:02:02'
node_type: forum
title: 'Type Design: Flourishing or Floundering? '

---
