---
author:
  name: ihio
body: "Hello. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone have any typeface suggestions for botanical gardens's
  wayfinding signages? \r\n\r\nI'm currently working on wayfinding project for a well-maintained
  165 years old botanical gardens. \r\n\r\nI'm looking at FF DIN as my typeface choice
  at the moment, but still unsure about it, since its a park/garden, there will be
  more time for people to read/study signs, is DIN the best choice? Yes, it definitely
  can communicate with a clear voice, but does it connect to its environment (natural,
  plants, life)? Or the 'connection' doesn't matters in signages? \r\n\r\nAny suggestions?
  \r\n\r\nCheers.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: jbtroost
    picture: 123455
  body: "How about Frutiger? A bit more friendly than Highway, Clearniew, DIN, or
    other road sign fonts and used in airports, etc.\r\n\r\nOr even maybe, you could
    have a look at the (free) fonts of Jos Buivenga (@exljbris).\r\n\r\nHTH!\r\n\r\nCheers,
    JB"
  created: '2011-10-12 12:53:24'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Perhaps Panno Sign or Panno Text?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.boldmonday.com/en/pannosign/\r\nhttp://www.boldmonday.com/en/pannotext/\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2011-10-12 13:02:33'
- author:
    name: jbtroost
    picture: 123455
  body: "Ja, zo groot is het hier natuurlijk... ;-)\r\nHulde aan de Audi, BTW! Was
    bij jullie presentatie tijdens een nidug-meeting, some time ago.\r\n\r\n\r\n@ihio:
    pardon my Dutch... I'd recommend the Pannosign Rounded over any other sign font.
    Completely overlooked..."
  created: '2011-10-12 13:53:20'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: HFJ Whitney, FF Unit, FF Info.
  created: '2011-10-12 14:50:31'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Definitely Guia:\r\nhttp://opentype.info/blog/2010/07/25/guia-pedestrian-wayfinding/"
  created: '2011-10-12 14:57:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Don't be ridiculous.\r\nThe norm of \"signage\" fonts is predicated on maximizing
    legibility for split-second reading by drivers.\r\nThis is a f*cking park, for
    God's sake, refuge from the automobile's hegemony and mankind's reductive geometry,
    one would hope!\r\nAnd it's historic.\r\nSlow down and smell the roses.\r\nAlbertus
    all caps, for instance."
  created: '2011-10-12 15:00:26'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Didn't the US Forest Service once use Clarendon?
  created: '2011-10-12 15:11:26'
- author:
    name: jbtroost
    picture: 123455
  body: "That's a friendly reply, Nick. I do smell the roses now, will watch out for
    thorns, though. And now that I have my skates on, why not go for an elegant type
    like the Ruse font by Gerrit Noordzij?\r\n\r\nSee example here: http://www.teff.nl/fonts/ruse/\r\n\r\nHTH!\r\n\r\nCheers,
    JB\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-12 15:53:57'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<a href=http://www.terminaldesign.com/Fonts/#/Rawlinson2>Rawlinson</a> \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-12 15:55:59'
- author:
    name: ihio
  body: "Thanks for all the suggestions, it was really really helpful!! I appreciate
    it a lot =) \r\n\r\n\r\nJB - Panno Sign is a great one!!! (And thanks Pieter for
    the link as well) Definitely will give it a try, umm... what do you think about
    FF Netto? \r\n\r\nriccard0 - But not sure how to get my hands on them. Are they
    accessible? =(\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks again! "
  created: '2011-10-12 16:24:23'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "You should contact the designer:\r\nhttp://www.taniaraposo.com/index.php?/info/"
  created: '2011-10-12 16:40:11'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Guia will not be released in the near future. But maybe T\xE2nia can give
    you a special deal \tnonetheless. \r\n\r\nI would also like to support Nicks point:
    You don't need designated \"signage typeface\" in such a case. Just use a typeface
    that fits your graphic design or the appearance of the park, it's buildings or
    whatever. \r\nIf you care about the legibility, just make sure that type size,
    contrast and so on are appropriate. "
  created: '2011-10-12 16:55:46'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Does the botanical garden have an existing identity system (logo, stationary,
    marketing materials, etc.)? Ideally the signage should coordinate with it, as
    it's all part of their visual identity.\r\n\r\nIf their identity system is bad
    or outdated, this might be a good opportunity to update it all, not just the signs."
  created: '2011-10-12 21:18:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I\u2019m w Nick.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/moss_3797.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-12 22:17:18'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Another factor to consider is the way the signs will be made. Screenprinted?
    Routed? Plots encapsuated? Seed in dirt? The technique used may limit your options\u2026"
  created: '2011-10-12 22:50:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://www.flickr.com/photos/mykreeve/55319818/
  created: '2011-10-13 03:48:37'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: .[[http://typophile.com/node/75395|This font]] is of a rather cool mood but
    it may give you all material needed for this in just one pack.
  created: '2011-10-13 10:55:27'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Slow down and smell the roses.\r\n> Albertus all caps, for instance.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    a modified version of Albertus was used for the signage in one of my favorite
    tv series, the 1960s cult classic, The Prisoner.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/prisoner-2_5214.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-13 17:36:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I concur with Nick on this as well. Pick something appropriate for the surroundings.
    No need to check recognition statistics for this one.
  created: '2011-10-13 19:19:55'
- author:
    name: ihio
  body: 'Thank you guys!!! Thanks for all the advises, otherwise I''ll stuck with
    the signage typefaces!! '
  created: '2011-10-14 04:30:06'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: We listed a few typefaces for wayfinding and signage on <a href="https://www.fontfont.com/fonts?filter_by_use=12&sortorder=size">FontFont.com</a>.
  created: '2011-10-14 08:53:28'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Speaking of Albertus\u2026\r\nWhat about Carter Sans?\r\nhttp://www.cartersans.com/"
  created: '2011-10-16 15:34:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm with Nick on this one. I think that because people are walking around,
    and close to signs, that specialized way finding type is not at all needed. Much
    more important is being in harmony with the organic look of the garden. I think
    that you could even use a script face, like [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fw-g-type/olicana/|Olicana]]
    and have it work. \r\n\r\nDo have a look at the awesome [[http://www.linotype.com/661297/ITCJapaneseGardenOrnamentsOrnaments-font.html|Japanese
    Garden Ornaments]], and now looking at it, Kobayashi's [[http://www.linotype.com/848/ITCWoodland-family.html|Woodland]]
    is the kind of thing that I think would be perfect for signage in a garden. "
  created: '2011-10-16 16:27:24'
- author:
    name: RadioB
    picture: 120717
  body: how about 'sebastian' from Storm Type Foundry. http://www.stormtype.com/family-sebastian.html
  created: '2011-10-16 16:54:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nice that so many agree with me.\r\nI was a bit extreme in relating the cult
    of legibility signage to driving, because institutional use (hospitals, universities,
    government buildings) and airports and malls and subway systems all involve ergonomic
    signage for pedestrians. And the pedestrian precincts that so many European cities
    have, a concept almost non-existant in North America.\r\n\r\nHowever, even if
    you're hurrying to make a connection or appointment, does a split second of extra
    glyph-processing time really make a significant difference?\r\n\r\nIt may even
    be that when scanning a long list of names, serifed types are best at disambiguation\u2014e.g.
    in a medical building lobby when checking to see what floor your doctor is on,
    and faced with a bewildering array of international names and medical specialties.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-16 18:01:50'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Basalt by Sumner Stone was designed for signage as well (a library, also
    a place one navigates slowly rather than split second) \r\n\r\nhttp://www.stonetypefoundry.com/basaltoverview.html\r\n\r\nOr
    his Magma would also be good, me thinks."
  created: '2011-10-16 22:07:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Magma is a nice idea. It would be more formal, but still has more organic
    qualities than DIN, which strikes me as awfully chilly for a garden. '
  created: '2011-10-17 02:59:24'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: I was about to suggest Sumner's typefaces too. Basalt or Magma would fit nicely
    fot this purpose. As an added bonus, Sumner runs his own farm with plants and
    trees, and has even designed an ornaments typeface - Leaves and Straw - based
    on the plants he grows. Perhaps a traditional old style serif, rightly spaced,
    could work too.
  created: '2011-10-17 09:13:34'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: 'While I agree with Nick in principle, Albertus would not be my first suggestion.
    I''ve always been fond of Optima for interior wayfaring signs. It works well for
    headline copy and isn''t painful to read for larger bodies of text. '
  created: '2011-10-19 03:38:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Hunt Botanical Library on the CMU campus uses Optima for their building.
    \ That was back in the 1960s though.\r\n\r\nYou might look at both Aria \u2013
    Rui Filipe Alves Abreu, 2011, or Capitolium News 2 \u2013 Gerard Unger, 2006,
    for something a bit more botanic looking and much newer.  Oh, and both were winners
    in the recent Letters.2 AtypI competition.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 04:17:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Basalt by Sumner Stone\"\r\n\r\nI am going to perch way out on the thinest
    section of a limb here and say that \"Basalt\" may be one of those faces that
    Sumner would like to revisit after years of other work--clearly, he has come a
    long way since.  I am sure it just isn't worth his time over other more interesting
    current projects."
  created: '2011-10-19 21:28:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Actually, much of Stone\u2019s recent work is an outgrowth from Basalt \u2014
    Magma in particular, but also Tuff, Munc, and Numa to some extent. So, you could
    say that he\u2019s been revisiting it plenty."
  created: '2011-10-20 13:00:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, Kent, and again, clearly, he has come a long way since.
  created: '2011-10-20 19:46:44'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "Are institutional typefaces chosen for ergonomic legibility or are they chosen
    for their perceived neutrality Nick?\r\nI assume it is for the latter. I think
    there could be room for some personality in some of those institutions, but I
    can see how that could be a difficult thing to get institutional consensus on.
    And most institutions probably just don't care or haven't thought about it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-20 20:39:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Wayfinding typefaces for directing people walking in a building have different
    legibility standards than highway signage.  Speed and distance requirements are
    much less demanding for pedestrians.  There are plenty of typefaces that would
    work fine for interiors of buildings that would be marginal for highway signage.
    "Perceived Neutrality" is rarely an issue for the reader, but some designers of
    signage may still cling to this as a desirable trait.  Other designers would choose
    a face for sense of place or harmony with surroundings, or in an attempt to get
    a particular feel.  For example, the original post mentions "natural, plants,
    life".  Perhaps they are intentionally looking for a type that might reflect those
    words reasonably well?
  created: '2011-10-20 20:54:32'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "Oh I absolutely agree that a park's wayfinding system can take on an organic,
    or humanistic, or slow, or whatever personality. And I understand that the only
    guidelines for their legibility are the ADA which are probably a lot less stringent
    than those involving moving vehicles \u2014 but I have never actually consulted
    any of those. I am just saying that I think institutions (not designers necessarily)
    are the ones that want these san serif typefaces that Nick is calling ergonomic,
    and I guess that they are wanting them more for their neutrality than for their
    legibility. But I could be wrong, it seems like I do hear \"you can't read it
    very well\" when I use anything remotely adventurous with some of my clients.\r\n\r\nThis
    might be a good place to mention [[http://www.ada.gov/stdspdf.htm|ADA standards]]
    for the original poster. They can be helpful in determining placement of the signage
    as well as design. "
  created: '2011-10-20 21:32:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "ADA Standards for signage are more often about height and placement that
    is accessible by the handicapped than mandated typefaces.  Sightline differences
    for those using wheelchairs is lower than for standing individuals. In some situations,
    brail or raised letters may be required for safety related signage.\r\n\r\n\"it
    seems like I do hear \"you can't read it very well\" is often an easy way for
    a client to say \"I don't like that one\" without sounding too disagreeable ;-)"
  created: '2011-10-20 22:06:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I guess that they are wanting them more for their neutrality than for
    their legibility.</em>\r\n\r\nOr perhaps because it requires less effort, imagination
    and design.\r\nChoose a \"signage\" font, set it in the standard manner, and use
    legibility BS to rationalize it to oneself, one's superiors and the client.\r\nProfessional
    expediency."
  created: '2011-10-20 23:43:28'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "I think that this is an interesting topic \u2014 why do institutions use
    \"signage\" typefaces when they could use something that is somehow connected
    to their institution. So is it really lazy designers or do clients want their
    signage to work in some other way, be it as neutral narrator or having the highest
    legibility (\"ergonomically\")?\r\n\r\nI mean surely these \"signage\" typefaces
    are being designed out of some sort of market need. Or have lazy designers created
    the market need?\r\n\r\nPlease let us know what your client ends up going for.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-21 03:31:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Not too many years ago, "signage" typefaces were the only ones available to
    produce signs economically.  They also were sure to be there when you needed to
    update signs with new information.  Every sign shop had helveticaclone vinyl signs
    and programs in house.  Technology has come a long way since then.  It just isn't
    that tough to use anything you want to make signs anymore.  Perhaps both clients
    and designers had become so comfortable with the so-called "neutral" look that
    they just didn't think about other choices.
  created: '2011-10-21 04:23:59'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "That does sound like a good reason for the prevailing attitude. And I do
    see a lot more interesting design happening in the Environmental Design field
    now, so maybe these preconceptions are being eroded.\r\n\r\nI think the obvious
    answer too, is that a lot of the institutions are using the same \"signage\" sort
    of typefaces in or as their logos/brand/identities. So of course they are going
    to end up with it in their wayfinding signage by extension. I just heard a lecture\r\nby
    Michael Bierut where he talked about designing the wayfinding for a Science Center
    in CT. He looked at the architecture\r\nof the building and got all excited and
    ran off and had Chester Jenkins (I think that is who he said) design a whole typeface
    based on the angle of the architecture. When he presented it to the client, they
    looked phased and said \"well we have to use Frutiger, that is what our identity
    is in.\"\r\n\r\nBut I am still curious about wether visitors might actually be
    looking for an authoritative voice in an institution's wayfinding even if the
    place itself is not about being efficient. The idea that the wayfinding is somehow
    this voice outside the place it is representing. Would the visitors at a large
    amusement park not trust the signs leading to the concession stands and exits
    if they were set in Hobo?\r\n\r\nI guess the answer to the second part of ihio's
    question \u2014 Or the 'connection' doesn't matters in signages?\u2014 is, like
    in all design projects, that it really depends on the situation.\r\n\r\nRats,
    and I thought I was going to come to some empirical knowledge about design on
    this one."
  created: '2011-10-21 16:49:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Derek, interesting issues you raise. I came across [[http://www.designindaba.com/video/paula-scher-agi-open-2011|this
    video by Paula Sher]], which I found really insightful. She talks about "environmental"
    typography, and how it can give a building a unique sense of place, which the
    architecture itself doesn''t. I think a garden might present some similar opportunities,
    though I think it would probably call for something generally more discrete than
    that Paula Sher has been doing with buildings.  '
  created: '2011-10-21 18:00:03'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Would the visitors at a large amusement park not trust the signs \r\n>
    leading to the concession stands and exits if they were set in Hobo?\r\n\r\nHeck,
    I've been places where directional signs were scrawled in marker pen on pieces
    of cardboard. \r\n\r\nPoor design choices may detract from a sign's appearance
    or legibility, but most users will still trust it unless it's so inappropriate
    that users think it's a hoax.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-21 18:32:16'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "Thanks William, that is very helpful and insightful. I like that Paula addresses
    and identifies the different \"parts of public space design.\" 1. being purely
    informational\u2014wayfinding, navigation, and 2. being inspirational\u2014giving
    a space it's spirit and expressing the personality of an institution. A choice
    of typeface and then how it is used could certainly fulfill one, or both of those
    parts. Or if both parts are not necessary to fulfill, then you would certainly
    have more options for the expressive part. Or of course just picking 2 different
    typefaces that go together that fulfill the 2 different needs much like designers
    do already when combining sans and serif faces, just with different criteria in
    this case.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-21 20:03:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: There is a little neighborhood store near me that deals with vintage comic
    books and with their collectors.  The signs in the crowded store were all done
    using Marker Felt.  True, not the most readable choice of face but just perfect
    for the shop and its clientele :-)
  created: '2011-10-21 21:08:21'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "A little something about sign shops and conservative design...\r\n\r\nIn
    the average sign shop, economy is a strong factor in regards to typography and
    design. Depending on the scale of the project, the competition is extremely fierce
    and profit margins are thin. When a graphic designer tells the client that the
    cost of layouts is going to be x amount of design time and x cost, that is expected.
    When a sign designer says that there will be x amount of design time at x cost,
    the client finds someone else. This is not true of every project, but it is frequent
    enough to be an issue. So, design time is rolled into the cost of the sign. If
    the design work runs over on time or you decide to use some cool font that you
    don't currently have, you eat the cost. If the client doesn't like it and goes
    with a Helvetica clone, you are out the time and money. Each change eats into
    your profit margin. So, most designs run to the conservative out of economy. If
    you are a one man operation, you can decide to be creative. If you are a wage
    slave, the boss is going to complain that your taking too long on the design.
    In large shops, which score the sweet, high profile jobs, the costs of design
    and new fonts can be spread over a larger invoice and is to be expected. With
    many interior wayfaring projects, the production costs are almost always more
    than the client expects because they have ignored the fact that they need a large
    number of signs. \r\n"
  created: '2011-10-25 03:20:24'
date: '2011-10-12 12:29:53'
node_type: forum
title: wayfinding typeface

---
