---
author:
  name: Ken Krugh
body: "Greeings All,\r\n\r\nTrying to understand the OT kern feature as well as trying
  to pick up some glyphs from a client's existing OTF.\r\n\r\nOpening a few existing
  OTFs in FontLab (5.0.4) things seem to make sense, they use the pos command with
  pairs of characters. The clients font, however, has only this in the kern feature:\r\n\r\n<code>feature
  kern { # Kerning\r\n # Latin\r\nlookup kern1 {\r\n} kern1;\r\n language FRA ; #
  French\r\n language ITA ; # Italian\r\n language AZE ; # Azeri\r\n language TRK
  ; # Turkish\r\n language MOL ; # Moldavian\r\n language ROM ; # Romanian\r\n language
  CRT ; # Crimean Tatar\r\n language DEU ; # German\r\n script DFLT; # Default\r\nlookup
  kern1;\r\n script grek; # Greek\r\nlookup kern1;\r\n script cyrl; # Cyrillic\r\nlookup
  kern1;\r\n language SRB ; # Serbian\r\n} kern;</code>\r\n\r\nI can recreate any
  necessary kerning for the few glyphs I need to pick up, but I'd like to understand
  things better.\r\n\r\nI can see there is kerning in the font by setting in InDesign
  and changing from \"Metrics\" to 0 so I'm thinking that FontLab may just be reading
  the OTF incorrectly?\r\n\r\nI've tried using Kerning assistance to expand and/or
  compress both of which mark all the glyphs as if they've been changed, but then
  upading the kern feature I get only:\r\n\r\n<code>feature kern {\r\n} kern;</code>\r\n\r\nAny
  enlightenment would be most appreciated.\r\n\r\nAll Best,\r\nKen"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Going down through my otf fonts opening them in FontLab I find that right
    away in the A's Arno Pro does something similar.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know of any
    other font editing program that might open the otf and \"see\" the kerning?\r\n\r\nThanks
    again,\r\nKen"
  created: '2011-10-14 23:37:26'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Have You tried OTMaster?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-10-15 03:11:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Have You tried OTMaster?</cite>\r\n\r\nI tried the Light version of
    OTMaster and I can only get it to display an old PS Type 1 style kern table, which
    is not normally present in OT fonts. TTX does the same thing.  "
  created: '2011-10-15 03:29:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you have FL504, just save the kern feature by  saving the Opentype Feature
    file (click the little folder icon at the top left of the OT panel and select
    \"save features\").  You can open the feature file (.fea) in a text editor.  The
    kern feature is usually first.\r\n\r\nEach opentype file has a Language  and script
    declaration.  That is what you have shown above in your first post."
  created: '2011-10-15 04:19:46'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "If you want something more \"visual\", you can try FontForge. With Arno Pro,
    if you select <code>Element &gt; Font Info &gt; Lookups &gt; GPOS</code> you get
    this\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gpos_4611.jpg]\r\nand then, clicking
    on the kerning table you get this view where you can select the two kerning classes,
    see the kerning value and also see in a right pannel how characters appear.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kerning2_3703.jpg]\r\nHere
    the class of guillemotleft and of A were selected."
  created: '2011-10-15 13:00:42'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "I tried saving the features from FontLab but in the feature file I only got
    the code I put in my first post.\r\n\r\nIn FontLab when I try to generate the
    font with which I'm working and the Arno from FontLab it indicates that there
    are binary tables, so I'm guessing it just wasn't able decompile it in to the
    feature.\r\n\r\nI looked quickly last night for a compiled PC version of FontForge
    but didn't see one, maybe I'll try that again.\r\n\r\nI'm still not real familiar
    with the features so bear with me. Based on this info from Michel I'm assuming
    its the gpos commands I'm looking for? I'll also have to figure out how to isolate
    the information relating to just the glyphs I need to pick up.\r\n\r\nOy.\r\n\r\nMany,
    MANY thanks guys, very much appreciated.\r\n\r\nKen"
  created: '2011-10-15 17:40:34'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "For a compiled version of FontForge running under Windows, see http://typophile.com/node/84219\r\nMichel"
  created: '2011-10-15 19:10:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "IIRC, Arno uses contextual kerning, which isn't supported by Fontlab Studio
    5.x. Same with mark and mkmk. All of us non-programmer sorts who depend on one
    program are eagerly awaiting version 6. It was promised in December 2010 . . .
    \r\n\r\nYou could take a look at & try using AFDKO 2.5"
  created: '2011-10-15 22:24:49'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I see no contextual positioning in Arno. You can find such tables in the
    font <a href=\"http://www.thessalonica.org.ru/en/oldstandard.html\">Old Standard</a>
    by typophile Anagnost (ref. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/43623#comment-269228\">this
    post</a>), that was created with FontForge. Here is how that looks with FontForge:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/contextualpos2_6540.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-15 23:50:41'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Contextual kerning?!?! Oy-vey! All this is pretty cool stuff but doing this
    as a side function of my main job responsibilities is really making me long for
    the days of 256 characters and kern pairs that are just that, simply pairs! :o)\r\n\r\nI've
    since done some searches and found other threads, here and elsewhere, that talk
    about Arno and it's kerning, a couple of which confirm my suspicion that the kerning
    is just too complex for FontLab to decompile.\r\n\r\nLooking at these other font
    editing programs really make me appreciate the way FontLab works with the features,
    making them easy to read and understand.\r\n\r\nProbably a silly question but
    how'd you come to the conclusion that Arno has contextual kerning? And would ALL
    of the kerning contextual?\r\n\r\nThanks for chiming in Charles!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-16 00:01:46'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "or read this: http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html\r\nespecially
    chapter 6. Glyph positioning (GPOS) rules"
  created: '2011-10-16 00:03:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "If you're going to do a search, \"kerning triplets\" is probably the key
    topic. See\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/34059\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/43708\r\n\r\nI
    do believe somewhere either Miguel or Thomas mentioned that Arno used contextual
    kerning; maybe it was just Adam's post & I'm misremembering."
  created: '2011-10-16 01:02:22'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/34059#comment-206044\">As
    Miguel says</a> in the first thread you link to,  to see all the kerning data
    in ArnoPro, all you need to do is install AFDKO and then execute the command\r\n<code>\r\nspot
    -t GPOS=7 ArnoPro-Regular.otf > gpos.txt\r\n</code>\r\nI just did that, went (fast)
    through the 35701 lines of the <code>gpos.txt</code> output file, and saw no \"triples\"
    or anything exotic.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-16 02:35:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Michael -- I'll have to take your word for it. As I use only FontLab, I don't
    get to see anything with Arno's kerning. What did Adam mean, then, that Arno is
    "too complex"? Simply that the number of kern *pairs* was too great for FL? Odd
    way to say that.
  created: '2011-10-16 04:34:16'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "From the screenshots of Arno above, those are kerning classes not contextual
    kerning. Kerning by classes can be very compact (and may be more efficient) when
    you have lots of similar glyphs that kern identically; 10 A-like glyphs and 10
    V-like glyphs, that is 10\xD710 kerning pairs to edit, but only one pair of kerning
    classes. I find FontForge's UI for kerning classes very informative and makes
    editing and reviewing kerning classes as simple as it goes."
  created: '2011-10-16 09:46:49'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "James: \u2018<em>[\u2026] OTMaster and I can only get it to display an old
    PS Type 1 style kern table [\u2026]</em>\u2019\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GPOS_4_4890.jpg]\r\nI
    wonder what happened here, because OTM will show <strong>everything</strong> present
    in a font. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GPOS_1_6231.jpg]\r\nMichel:
    \u2018<em>If you want something more \"visual\", you can try FontForge</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GPOS_2_3861.jpg]\r\nOr
    OTM. The advantage of OTM is that there is no conversion or interpretation, and
    everything can be edited directly. One can even export the features \uFB01le and
    (after editing) compile the features again (or new ones, of course).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GPOS_3_5314.jpg]\r\nCharles:
    <em>\u2018Same with mark and mkmk\u2019</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAll the mark stuff can
    be compiled by OTM and positionally edited using a GUI. See also Karsten L\xFCcke\u2019s
    great <a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/OTMA/OTM_Manual_230.pdf\">OTM
    manual</a>.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-16 12:49:07'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Frank Blokland: <cite>The advantage of OTM is that there is no conversion
    or interpretation</cite>\r\n\r\nThat sounds like a nice feature.\r\n\r\n[-]: <cite>One
    can even export the features \uFB01le</cite>\r\n\r\nOne can do the same with FontForge.
    Just right click in the GPOS pannel and save.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/savefeatures_5446.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-16 16:40:10'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@Michel Boyer:\r\n\r\n\"Save Feature File\" will save all GSUB, GPOS and
    GDEF tables, to save only the selected lookup use \"Save Lookup\"."
  created: '2011-10-16 19:30:40'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Michel: \u2018<em>One can do the same with FontForge. Just right click in
    the GPOS pannel and save.</em>\u2019\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Features_1_4669.jpg]\r\nIn
    OTM one can do this by selecting the <em>Export\u2026</em> option from the <em>File</em>
    menu, but actually the emphasis in my line was on the second part: \u2018<em>[\u2026]
    and (after editing) compile the features again [\u2026]</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Features_2_6424.jpg]\r\nOTM
    cleverly compiles features without the necessity that the imported layout features
    are covered by the character set. It will \u2018simply\u2019 generate a subset
    of the applicable features (and shows this in a listing). At DTL we use a sort
    of \u2018all covering\u2019 <a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/OTMA/features_2.1_New_OTM.fea\">
    features \uFB01le</a>, which I update and enhance from time to time. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Features_3_4395.jpg]\r\nBy
    the way, exported features <em>may</em> be edited, but also can be compiled again
    without doing that, generating things as they were.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-16 19:42:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Bokland: <cite>actually the emphasis in my line was on the second part: \u2018[\u2026]
    and (after editing) compile the features again [\u2026]\u2019</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    FontForge can also read in the feature file.  You just select <code>File &gt;
    Merge Feature Info</code> and then select the .fea file. Here I deleted completely
    the GPOS tables from Arno, and read in the feature file. Some names are lost but
    the tables are there.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/infeatures_3838.jpg]\r\n\r\nEdit.
    \r\n\r\nOk, now I generated the otf font, exited from FontForge and opened FontForge
    on the new font. Here is what I now see in the GPOS tables:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/featback_6024.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-16 21:28:48'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "Bokland: <cite>OTM cleverly compiles features without the necessity that
    the imported layout features are covered by the character set.</cite>\r\n\r\nWith
    the risk of this turning into this does and that does :) but FontForge does that
    too; it will simply ignore glyph names that does not exist in the font, though
    it won't generate a warning which is suboptimal. FontForge also implements all
    of the feature file specification, even parts not implemented by Adobe (in the
    other day I wanted to test some of my feature files with AFDKO and it started
    complaining about certain lookup types not supported and I couldn't get it to
    compile at all without re-implementing those lookups in more convoluted ways)."
  created: '2011-10-16 21:29:17'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "Michel: <cite>Some names are lost but the tables are there.</cite>\r\n\r\nlookup
    names are purely cosmetic, they don't get output in the final font (unless you
    ask FontForge to output its private table where it can keep such information for
    later use). When FontForge opens a new font it will generate lookup names based
    on the feature they are attached to. Feature files have restrictions on table
    names, so the ones exported by FontForge differ slightly from the ones used originally
    in the UI."
  created: '2011-10-16 21:35:30'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>&ldquo; lookup names are purely cosmetic &rdquo;</cite>\r\n &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    &nbsp; Indeed."
  created: '2011-10-16 22:55:08'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Khaled: \u2018<em>With the risk of this turning into this does and that does</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\nBasically
    that is the point of discussion now, but before I further elaborate on the differences
    in functionality between FF and OTM, let me underline here that I consider FF
    to be a very powerful and highly useful program for professional font production.
    The by designers often discussed X Windows interface of FF is probably not the
    most sophisticated one, but with scripting much can be done in FF without having
    to look at the interface anyway. And with some tweaking the FF auto-hinter is
    one of the best I have seen so far. So, although I prefer (not surprisingly) DTL
    FontMaster, FontForge is a serious competitor in my opinion.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThat
    being said, although there is obviously an overlap in functionality, there is
    a big difference between FF and OTM when it comes to editing OpenType fonts and
    OT layout features. Prior to editing, the FF user has to convert a font to FF\u2019s
    proprietary format and after editing the font has to be newly generated again.
    The outcome (besides the changes) will never be identical to the original font,
    unless this was generated with the same version of FF too, I reckon. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OTM_FV_TTF_3839.jpg]\r\nWith
    OTM the font is not converted and one can edit the character set, glyphs and tables
    directly, i.e. the font itself becomes the \u2018database\u2019. OTM runs natively
    under Mac OS and Windows and the latter makes side by side editing with for instance
    MS\u2019s Font Validator easy (see the illustration above). \r\n&nbsp;\r\nWith
    the upcoming <em>KernMaster 2012</em> we will focus even more on the font-as-database
    approach; KM 2012 can space and kern OT fonts and merges the outcomes with the
    original font data. Output options include a features \uFB01le, of course.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-17 09:10:47'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Mind, FontForge's own storage format, SFD, is textual as per Unix canon. There
    is also an SFDir format that saves each glyph as a separate file in a subdirectory,
    likely intended for collaborative efforts. And now also UFO.
  created: '2011-10-17 15:30:28'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "T\xE9: \u2018<em>[\u2026] FontForge's own storage format, SFD, is textual
    as per Unix canon.</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThis exchange of info on the checking
    and editing of OT Layout features seems to go in all directions now, but I simply
    can\u2019t resist replying here that the 30+ years old IKARUS (UNIX) \uFB01le
    system of which DTL FontMaster makes use, is also very much text based (UFM [URW
    Font Metadata], CHA [character layout \uFB01le] and kerning [.afm or .fea]). \r\n&nbsp;\r\nI
    have tried to explain FM\u2019s versatile \uFB01le structure in <a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/FM/FM_Easy_automation.pdf\">
    this presentation</a> a couple of years ago.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB"
  created: '2011-10-17 16:41:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Concerning data representation, I like the xml files produced by ttx. They
    are text files, but they are also well structured. Just reading the output of
    <code>ttx -t GPOS ArnoPro-Regular.otf</code> is quite instructive. They can also
    be parsed, provided you can write some code.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-17 17:50:11'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "I have no stock in FontForge (not more than any one else), I'm just a big
    fan of it (and free software in general). Indeed FontForge deassembles and then
    reassembles the font, so it is not really suitable for some tasks where this is
    undesirable (though I once fixed serious shaping bug in a font by simply opening
    it in FontForge and then generating a new font, so it can be useful :)\r\n\r\nI
    read \"proprietary\" here to just mean its own format, otherwise SFD is publicly
    documented and its canonical implementation is freely available under BSD license
    (like the rest of FontForge).\r\n \r\nBTW, FontForge can read IKARUS (or at least
    it claims to, I don't have such files to test)."
  created: '2011-10-17 17:52:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I wonder what happened here, because OTM will show everything present
    in a font.</cite>\r\n\r\n I made the mistake of expecting the feature labeled
    \u201C'kern' table viewer\u201D in a program for mastering OpenType fonts to show
    me OpenType kerning. Silly me. "
  created: '2011-10-17 18:45:58'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Khaled: \u2018<em>I read \"proprietary\" here to just mean its own format
    [\u2026] FontForge can read IKARUS (or at least it claims to, I don't have such
    files to test).</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\nYes, that is what I meant. The proprietary
    format of the IKARUS system has been publicly documented too (as far as I know,
    for the \uFB01rst time in the late 1980\u2019s). \r\nI did not know that FontForge
    does support the IK format and so far I have not been able to open IK \uFB01les
    in FF, by the way. I know that FontLab Studio supports the IK format in a limited
    way. Although it is quite some time ago when I tested this, I was able to open
    some IK \uFB01les in FLS.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nJames: \u2018<em>[\u2026] expecting the
    feature labeled \u201C'kern' table viewer\u201D in a program [\u2026] to show
    me OpenType kerning.</em>\u2019\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAs you know, OpenType fonts come
    in two \uFB02avors (CFF and TTF) and there are two ways to include kerning into
    OpenType fonts, namely as \u2018\uFB02at\u2019 kerning in the <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/kern.htm\">\u2018kern\u2019
    table</a> (only in TTF) and as \u2018advanced\u2019 kerning in the <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/gpos.htm\">\u2018GPOS\u2019
    table</a> (TTF\u2019s can contain both tables). You probably meant the \u2018GPOS\u2019
    table when you mentioned \u2018OpenType kerning\u2019, I reckon.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-17 19:33:08'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Khaled: <cite>Indeed FontForge deassembles and then reassembles the font,
    so it is not really suitable for some tasks where this is undesirable</cite>\r\n\r\nEven
    then, FontForge can be useful. Last summer, I made a font with AAT tables for
    the Macintosh. I found no way to get with fontforge a ttf output that would work
    correctly on OS X 10.5, so I used the fontforge python module to generate the
    appropriate mif file (6770 lines) and then used ftxenhancer. All the precomposed
    glyphs had been generated with a fontforge script. However,  after seeing some
    outputs on the screen, I realized that some diacritics in the precomposed glyphs
    needed to be moved. Modifying the font  with fontforge and generating anew did
    not work and ftxenhancer was much too slow for my taste. So, here is what I did:
    I opened the working AAT font with FontForge, reencoded in the glyph order, modified
    the glyphs to my taste, generated a new ttf font and then extracted from it the
    glyf table using ttx and merged the resulting .ttx file into the original AAT
    font. That worked nicely, and fast. So, with fontforge and ttx, you can do things
    with fonts that fontforge does not understand completely.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-17 21:24:33'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Incidentally, that's why so many type designers here name tool chains rather
    than single tools. Some tools are better at some tasks than others are.\r\n\r\nAside:
    Been wondering if there is a lazy way to convert pair kerning to class kerning.\r\n\r\nTopic
    drift. It always gets someone's goat."
  created: '2011-10-18 13:56:38'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Wow! I LOVE this forum! Thanks guys.\r\n\r\nI had to call in a 2nd team who
    was able to give me a GPOS (I'm pretty sure that was what I needed) \"dump\" though
    I'm not sure from where (I have an email to him). I took that and, from my limited
    knowledge, am thinking (as Khaled mentioned) it looks like it is all kerning classes.
    I've crunched that file and picked from it what I needed creating classes as necessary.
    I know have a boat load of kern pairs to add to the font and classes to work with
    them.\r\n\r\nHowever (there's always a but) when I import into FontLab its not
    indicating the same number of pairs I know I have. In another post (http://typophile.com/node/40041)
    Adam T. mentions 10,920, though I'm not sure whether than means pairs OT class
    or \"old-style\" pairs. I'm trying to import the single and key-glyph pairs I've
    created, and total I should have no where near 10,920. I've looked but can't seem
    to find anything definitive as to what the limit for the \"regular\" (not the
    OT feature) kern pair limit it. Does anyone know?\r\n\r\nAlso, at the top of the
    dump I received there is a lookup containing 505 glyphs that looks like this and
    I have no idea what they are:\r\n\r\n<code>lookup GPOS_LOOKUP_00000 \r\n{\r\n
    lookupflag 0;\r\n    pos \\A <5 0 10 0>;\r\n    pos \\B <5 0 10 0>;\r\n    pos
    \\C <5 0 10 0>;\r\n    pos \\D <5 0 10 0>;\r\n    pos \\E <5 0 10 0>;\r\n    ...</code>\r\n\r\nBelow
    that are kern pairs of some sort?:\r\n\r\n<code>lookup GPOS_LOOKUP_00001 \r\n{\r\n
    lookupflag 0;\r\n    pos question uni0458 <0 0 4 0>;\r\n    pos question uni0463
    <0 0 3 0>;\r\n    pos B X <0 0 -6 0>;\r\n    pos B b <0 0 -11 0>;\r\n    pos B
    v <0 0 -14 0>;\r\n    ...</code>\r\n\r\nBelow that are entries that look like
    this, which I am assuming is the class kerning (these don't seem to repeat what
    I think are kern paris up above):\r\n\r\n<code> subtable;\r\n    pos [ \\A \\Aacute
    \\Acircumflex \\Adieresis \\Agrave \\Aring \\Atilde \\R_A \\K_A \\uni0102 \\uni0100\r\n
    \        \\uni0104 \\uni01FA \\uni1EA0 \\uni1EA2 \\uni1EA4 \\uni1EA6 \\uni1EA8
    \\uni1EAA \\uni1EAC\r\n         \\uni1EAE \\uni1EB0 \\uni1EB2 \\uni1EB4 \\uni1EB6]\r\n
    \       [ \\A \\AE \\Aacute \\Acircumflex \\Adieresis \\Agrave \\Aring \\Atilde
    \\uni0102 \\uni0100 \\uni0104\r\n         \\uni01FA \\uni01FC \\uni1EA0 \\uni1EA2
    \\uni1EA4 \\uni1EA6 \\uni1EA8 \\uni1EAA \\uni1EAC\r\n         \\uni1EAE \\uni1EB0
    \\uni1EB2 \\uni1EB4 \\uni1EB6] <0 0 29 0>;</code>\r\n\r\nAm I correct in my assumptions
    and what is that first thing?\r\n\r\nOy, and thnks again for everyone's time.\r\nKen"
  created: '2011-10-18 18:42:14'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Font_6569.png]\r\nlookup GPOS_LOOKUP_00000
    = cpsp Capital Spacing\r\nlookup GPOS_LOOKUP_00001 = kern per glyph pairs\r\nthe
    rest kerning classes \r\nBTW\r\n\"lookup GPOS_LOOKUP_00001\r\n{\r\nlookupflag
    0;\r\npos question uni0458 <0 0 4 0>;\r\npos question uni0463 <0 0 3 0>;\"\r\ncould
    be written as:\r\nlookup kernHorizontalKerninglookup1 {\r\n  lookupflag 0;\r\n
    \   pos \\question \\uni0463 3;\r\n    pos \\question \\uni0458 4;"
  created: '2011-10-18 22:49:34'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Also, if you look at and/or edit that table with FontForge, you get a completely
    different interface. You get a list of pairs. If you want to change the kerning
    of one pair, you can simply select it and then drag the right hand character at
    the bottom of the panel. You add pairs at the bottom of the list. Those pairs
    override the kerning that would otherwise be given by the class kerning. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kern_4381.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-19 09:51:34'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "OH! I THINK I get it. The CPSP is another GPOS lookup like the kern feature?\r\n\r\nI
    also found that I wasn't getting the total number of kerns when importing due
    to some duplicates in the incoming afm, it has nothing to do with an upper limit
    of kern pairs. Though that would still be an interesting thing to know.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again!\r\nKen"
  created: '2011-10-19 16:25:40'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I just had a closer look at Arno's GPOS kern table. Using the AFDKO command\r\n<PRE>\r\nspot
    -t GPOS=6 ArnoPro-Regular.otf > ArnoPro-Regular.afm\r\n</PRE>\r\nyou can get a
    huge file in afm format containing all kerning pairs for all the scripts (it takes
    a few minutes). The first lines are\r\n<PRE>\r\nComment Begin Script DFLT Language
    dflt\r\nStartKernPairs 997900\r\nKPX A A 29\r\nKPX A A.a 34\r\nKPX A AE 29\r\n</PRE>\r\nThere
    are thus 997900 pairs which, after converting to GPOS pair kerning, overflows
    by a few hundred times the maximum allowed. \r\n\r\nIn particular, in subtable
    2, the left class number 34 contains 330 characters and the right class number
    26 contains 254 characters; by specifying that the kern of each left character
    in class number 34 with each right character in class number 26 is -4 (which gives
    just one pair with class kerning), 330 \xD7 254 = 83820 pairs are required in
    the afm file: that single pair would already cause an overflow with pair kerning.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-23 16:51:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank: <em>With the upcoming KernMaster 2012...</em>\r\n\r\nRequest: options
    for right-to-left kerning in KernMaster."
  created: '2011-10-24 03:03:19'
date: '2011-10-14 19:50:06'
title: OT Kern Feature

---
