---
author:
  name: emspace
  picture: 118892
body: "A few questions here... Em, en and thin spaces pros needed! :-)\r\n\r\nHere
  is my situation : \r\n\r\nI always use InDesign to do my type so I learned the shortcut
  for thin space and this is what I use. Back when I was in College, I was taught
  to put 1/4th of an em (quart de cadratin) before ! or ? (in french) and if I remember
  well, we'd do it by putting 25% in the horizontal scale for a normal space in Illustrator.
  This now makes no more sense to me as I read not too long ago that the thin space
  in InDesign is 1/8th of an em and not 1/4th. So according to what I learned, \"espace
  fine\" would not be the same thing as \"thin space\"... but the 1/8th of an em looks
  fine before ? and !... All the other designers I know use the same shortcut...are
  we ALL wrong or is the school wrong?! Neither option seems good to me :-)\r\n\r\nI'm
  now the one teaching type (at the same school, 10 years later) and currently using
  a colleague's notes and something else seems wrong. I read in the theory normally
  given to the class that a normal space is a \"demi-cadratin\" so half an em (en).
  I know there is no way I'm typing an en-space each time I hit the space bar, it
  looks way smaller than the en spaces I use sometimes in InDesign. So okay, can someone
  tell me what's the width for a \"normal\" space? (I know it can be variable but
  it's not an en, is it?!)\r\n\r\nNext part...\r\nThe students work in Illustrator
  for now so I need to show them how to do their thin space in Illustrator. The method
  taught now instead of changing the horizontal scaling to 25% is to position the
  cursor between the letter and the ! and add 75 units of kerning. I've started from
  the idea that the theory says a normal space is equal to an en-space and changed
  the 25% method to a 50% method so it would equal a 1/4th of an em (50% of an en)
  and tested it against the 75 units of kerning. It gave the same visual result and
  scaled proportionally, so far so good. I like being able to paste my space somewhere
  else so I still prefer my method for now. \r\n\r\nMy other question is...I can't
  figure out how 75 units of kerning could equal 1/4th of an em... Isn't an em supposed
  to be split in 1000 units for kerning and so 75/1000 does not equal 1/4th or even
  1/8th... What is the number used in the kerning field based on?\r\n\r\nNow the teacher
  feels stupid... :-) Sorry about the long post. Any help in figuring this out is
  greatly appreciated!\r\n\r\nEm"
comments:
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "As it happens, I was hacking a bit on Heilhveiti (a renamed Vollkorn) a short
    while ago. Its design height is 1000 units (750A+250D), so one can take that as
    its em height as well. Its space (#32) is 200 units, making it one-fifth of an
    em.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/fdsspec/overview.aspx]]
    is a Microsoft typography article about recommended settings and shapes when making
    Latin-based type. There is also mention of French typography.\r\n\r\nIn short,
    it seems to be a matter of preference."
  created: '2011-10-18 19:22:07'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Back in Ye Olden Days, before the democratizing of typesetting, dedicated
    phototypesetting systems generally made numerals en-space width and punctuation
    thin-space width. Since WYSIWYG was a far-away dream, this arrangement made setting
    tabular material a little easier and far more predictable.\r\n\r\nSo, fast-forward
    to today: use a period to indicate a thin space and set its fill to 0% black/paper/whatever\u2026"
  created: '2011-10-18 21:45:15'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "T\xE9 Rowan, thank you for the great page about spaces. This explained everything
    and also how come I could type a 1/4th em and get a bigger space than a normal
    space in the font I was using earlier today! Looks like this theory I have needs
    revision!\r\n\r\nOldnick, I like your tip although I'd be afraid they would forget
    to change the color at some point and make a mistake. I like that it will be adapted
    consistantly with whatever type used and it's relation with history. I'll mention
    it as well.\r\n\r\nI still don't know how kerning units are calculated... anyone?
    :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-18 22:21:49'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "If inDesign lets you and the font has them, you could use some of the Unicode
    spaces (thin space, punctuation space) for this purpose. This, by the way, is
    why I was mucking about with Vollkorn/Heilhveiti in the first place &ndash; to
    toss in some nice-to-have spaces and dashes.\r\n\r\nRe kerning, if a font has
    it, it's done in design units. A comment on [[http://help.adobe.com/en_US/InDesign/6.0/WSa285fff53dea4f8617383751001ea8cb3f-6e14a.html|
    an inDesign help page]] indicates that iD sets kerning in 1/1000em increments.
    So, 1/8em oughta be 125 units. /me scratches 's head."
  created: '2011-10-18 22:51:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Related discussion: http://typophile.com/node/68985\r\n\r\nComment specifically
    about InDesign\u2019s formulae: http://typophile.com/node/68985#comment-404470"
  created: '2011-10-19 12:47:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "A thin space has never been any one thing. If you ask an old Linotype (linecaster)
    operator, he'll tell you a \"thin space\" is an unexpanded spaceband. The linecasters
    weren't on an em system; if thin spacebands were used, an unexpanded spaceband
    was about 2 points. IIRC, Monotype was a 5-to-em space. Some took it as 6-to-em.
    The Chicago Manual at one time specified a thin as a 4-to-em, but no good comp
    I knew ever used that. Oddly enough, in those days Chicago used someone not at
    Chicago for there typesetting/printing definitions, and that person (a designer)
    happened to be at odds with the world. See <cite>Glossary of Typesetting Terms</cite>.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nI believe the way InDesign works is if the space characters aren't
    in the font (most fonts lack them), InDesign uses a formula. It is documented.
    If the spaces are in the font, InDesign will use them. Unicode now defines the
    values, though of course, you can use what you want. I usually use about .055
    em for a hair space, and .160 for a thin (close to 6-to-em). The 3-to-em, 4-to-em
    and I believe 5-to-em are also provided for by Unicode, in addition to \"thin\"
    and \"hair\"\r\n\r\nBTW, CS4 for windows had a nasty bug. If (1) you did have
    the space characters in the font, and (2) used 9 of them on a single line -- say,
    ens, as happens on a cip page, and (3) had \"view invisible characters\" (close
    to that, anyway,) \"on,\" the program would crash every time. Miguel Sousa at
    Adobe checked it out, and reported that bug isn't in CS5, and wasn't in CS3. Life
    is strange."
  created: '2011-10-19 13:27:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Thanks Kent. I had forgotten about that thread. It is interesting, the internet
    threads give a lot more information than a vetted, published source like the <cite>Glossary</cite>.
    Most of it correct, and with the bonus value of Nick's sarcasm.
  created: '2011-10-19 13:30:21'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I still don't know how kerning units are calculated... anyone? :-)</em>\r\n\r\nVisually
    is the most effective\u2014and time-consuming\u2014way. Perhaps DTL Kernmaster
    2012 will break the mold, but most of the algorithmic kerning programs or functions
    now available tend to make a number of bad decisions, which need to be undone
    manually.\r\n\r\nAnother flashback to Ye Olden Days of Dedicated Typesetting Machines:
    the fonts available did not contain any kerning data, as a rule. Kerning was done
    after all of the keystrokes had been input by a simple search-and-replace function,
    on the assumption that the limited number of search pairs would cover most instances.
    In general, this was true, but one always had the option of going back in and
    modifying the source file if the output shouwed any glaring errors and/or omissions."
  created: '2011-10-19 17:05:07'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "Well, after some testing the kernings units do correspond to 1/1000th of
    an em. The theory is just wrong! :-/ Gotta love being a new teacher and challenging
    what's taught already. I'm proud and feel out of place at the same time, haha...
    \r\n\r\nI like the tidbit about the Chicago Style Manual... maybe this is where
    our 1/4th of an em comes from.\r\n\r\nAs usual, all type answers can be found
    on Typophile and so much much more. Thank you!"
  created: '2011-10-24 22:20:15'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "This was too easy... :-)\r\n\r\nJust to confuse me even more... \r\nIn the
    english help file of InDesign :\r\nQuarter Space...One\u2011fourth the width of
    an em space.\r\nand\r\nHair Space...One\u2011twenty\u2011fourth the width of an
    em space. So far so good...\r\n\r\nand its equivalents in the French file :\r\nQuart
    d\u2019espace...Un quart de la largeur d\u2019une espace cadratin.\r\nand\r\nEspace
    1/4 cadratin...Un vingt-quatri\xE8me de la largeur d\u2019une espace cadratin.\r\n\r\nIt's
    word for word the same text except for the name Hair Space is changed to Space
    1/4 of an em! Argh! Maybe they just forgot the 2 in 1/24. "
  created: '2011-10-26 06:19:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I must confess that I fail to see the relevance of those values for the spacing
    in French punctuation. Indeed all those values are defined in terms of the em
    size; however, the eye can't  judge the spacing before a semicolon or an interrogation
    point in terms of the em size; all it can do is compare it  to  close by inter
    word spacing; with LaTeX, the inter word spacing is easily accessible as <code>\\fontdimen2</code>
    \ and I feel no guilt in redefining the French spacing used by the babel package
    in terms of it (and other easily accessible parameters), especially with fonts
    for which  <code>0.16667em</code> (the LaTeX thin space) is almost equal to the
    inter word spacing.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-26 16:21:34'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here are a few examples that show more clearly the problem of defining thin
    spaces (or at least punctuation spacing) in terms of the em size. In all the fonts
    I looked at, the em size is 1000. In Arno Pro Regular, the width of the space
    character is 190. If you define the thin space as the fifth of the em size, you
    get 1000/5 = 200, and a thin space that is then larger than the space. With 1000/6
    you get 167. With 1000/8 you get 125, which is 66% of 190 and may seem acceptable
    to some. \r\n\r\nHowever, if I run a script to get the width of the space character
    in other fonts I got from CS3, I get still smaller values for the space width:\r\n<PRE>\r\nArnoPro-Display.otf
    \                158\r\nArnoPro-BoldDisplay.otf             150\r\nMyriadPro-CondIt.otf
    \               147\r\nNuevaStd-Cond.otf                   129\r\nNuevaStd-CondItalic.otf
    \            104\r\n</PRE>\r\nWith Nueva Condensed, the space width is approximately
    equal to  1000/8, not to mention the Condensed italic."
  created: '2011-10-26 19:32:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@emspace - Yeah, that's a right effin big blunder in the French file.\r\n\r\nAnd
    to really set your eyes swirling, the [[http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Espace_typographique|French
    Wikipedia page on spaces]] says that a thin space differs between English and
    French typography (em/4 v em/5).\r\n\r\nI think... I think it's time you start
    your own school on proper typography.\r\n\r\nAside: The English Wikipedia page
    on [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentence_spacing|sentence spacing]] makes some
    interesting comments."
  created: '2011-10-26 20:50:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Here are a few examples that show more clearly the problem of defining
    thin spaces (or at least punctuation spacing) in terms of the em size. In all
    the fonts I looked at, the em size is 1000. In Arno Pro Regular, the width of
    the space character is 190 . . .</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich is too bloody tight. The
    compositor can change the value of a nominal space in InDesign by changing the
    percentage from 100% to another value in the justification menu. Or, since it
    is an Adobe font, go into the font and change the value there. In an ideal world,
    this wouldn't be a licensing issue -- the last time I used TeX, the spacebands
    used were not from a font character.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nElsewhere on Typophile,
    Kent Lew has given his technique for determining the spacing values to use in
    InDesign with a particular font -- I believe he started by setting a page worth
    of text ragged right, then print it out, evaluate, and adjust. Of course, the
    values picked are subjective.\r\n\r\nBut you're right, to have the word space
    subject to the whim of the type designer but have the other spaces \"fixed\" by
    convention is an oddity. Again, if you go into the font, you can change the vales
    of \"thin\" and \"hair.\" (Well, you *could* change them all, but you'd fly in
    the face of defined fixed spaces.) Anther oddity of fonts, perhaps a legacy from
    Type 1 fonts where fixed spaces were rare, is giving the nobreak space character
    a value of 3-to-em, or even 2-to-em.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\n\r\nFor teaching, the
    best advice is to inform students that all spaces in typeset material interact.
    For printed texts, that would include margins. Digital editions lack a true page,
    so page/margin spacing tends to disappear. But the relationship of character spacing,
    word spacing, and line spacing remains. The \"proper\" space around punctuation
    is in large part set by these relationships."
  created: '2011-10-27 07:54:31'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "For those that read French, here is a relevant comment from Jean-Fran\xE7ois
    Porchez: http://www.typographe.com/forum/viewtopic.php?id=715"
  created: '2011-10-27 12:58:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Charles: <cite>the last time I used TeX, the spacebands used were not from
    a font character.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you simply use XeLaTeX with Arno Pro and the
    polyglossia package, here is what you can get in a two column text (after some
    automatic shrinking of the interword spacing).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arno_6563.jpg]\r\n\r\nps:
    In the input file, there is no spacing before the semicolon."
  created: '2011-10-27 14:08:56'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Michel, that looks like crap. The interword space is too tight, the space
    around the punctuation too loose. For generalities, IMHO, Porchez has it right.\r\n\r\n(The
    TeX I used was plain TeX with our own macros, including a page layout set.)"
  created: '2011-10-27 22:16:39'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "Michel, thank you so much! This was the last piece missing for the puzzle.
    I had actually written to Mr. Porchez just the day before you posted this so it
    looks like I was right in thinking he could answer me :-) I got his reply this
    morning and he directed me to this article he wrote : http://www.porchez.com/article/272/Lesespacesparentspauvres\r\n\r\nIt's
    in French but overall explains how after Didot, interword spaces used were 1/3em
    and larger. At the time, the thin space was generally 1/4em. Afterwards, when
    the interword spaces shrunk, some people didn't change the thin space (duh!!)\r\n\r\nI'm
    almost done rewriting all the theory we had on the topic. I was supposed to give
    it tonight but I still have to experiment on the best way to fake a thin space
    in Illustrator so I'll give it next week.\r\n\r\n\xC9milie\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-28 06:25:24'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Emilie\r\n\r\nIf you search for <em>ponctuation</em> the [[http://www.oqlf.gouv.qc.ca/ressources/bdl.html|Banque
    de d\xE9pannage linguistique]] of the Office qu\xE9b\xE9cois de la langue fran\xE7aise,
    and then select their text about  [[http://66.46.185.79/bdl/gabarit_bdl.asp?t1=1&id=2039|spacing
    before and after punctuation signs]], you get in the first paragraph their definition
    of <em>espace fine</em> namely une <em>espace ins\xE9cable r\xE9duite</em> (a
    reduced non breaking space). For them spacing may be either <em>normal</em> or
    <em>ins\xE9cable</em> and by the context, they are clearly referring to the interword
    spacing.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-28 14:39:46'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "I do use the Banque de d\xE9pannage linguistique although I wasn't aware
    of that specific page, thank you! The problem is because of the school setting
    they require to use a book. Before, we used the Ramat (ouch!) and now there is
    a Manuel de Typographie published by 2-3 teachers I think. Overall it's a very
    nice manual and I don't want to complain too much because it's already difficult
    to find French text books in graphic design. But the definition in the manual
    for a thin space is that it's equal to a quarter em. I had the library order the
    Manuel de composition typographie by Muriel Paris and maybe I will suggest it
    to the department but I don't think it covers the history and such.\r\n\r\n@oldnick
    : I've been experimenting with thin spaces in Illustrator and your trick with
    the period works well, in fact it's the only way to type it so it will be non-breaking
    that I am aware of. But I'm not always getting the same space (tried it in Minion,
    Myriad, Archer and the period space in Archer is thinner than the other fonts)
    and still trying to figure out how to have a flawless 1/8 non-breaking em in Illustrator."
  created: '2011-10-28 18:10:02'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "/just realized there a \"no break\" option in character palette of Illustrator!\r\n\r\nNevermind
    then! So I guess I found two decents ways for creating a non-breaking thin space.
    Kerning the letter and punctuation sign by +125 or inserting a space at 50% horizontal
    scale and applying no break with the previous word. Then it will still be selectable.
    It seems to work fine on all the fonts I've tried so far."
  created: '2011-10-28 18:20:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Finding the best looking amount of space is not the same as trying to translate
    yesteryears thinspace to what InD can understand.  Different fonts have different
    kerning.  Some may have built in space to accommodate the French preference either
    in default kerning, with contextual kerning, or even using language specific contexts.
    It is always best to look at the actual font you are using as it comes from the
    foundry before deciding if you want to augment the spacing. After testing in the
    language and text you are dealing with, you can see what needs to be done.  You
    might also make a note to yourself about which fonts need what adjustments and
    make a style sheet for later use.
  created: '2011-10-28 19:22:42'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The colophon of my 1975 edition of the <em>Lexique des r\xE8gles typographiques
    en usage \xE0 l'imprimerie nationale</em>, that has been <em>the</em> reference
    for many years, says it was printed in monotype Baskerville  by Imprimerie nationale.
    Presuming they applied their own rules, I looked at a few of their semicolons
    and started doubting their thin space was really as much a fourth of an em. Now,
    the top is a picture of the end of a line (page 38), so that no space has been
    squeezed or expanded for justification. At the bottom is the Monotype Baskerville
    I have on my mac. The point size I used is 10. To get the same spacing as the
    original, I had to add a kern of 150 before the blanks; and to get the semicolon
    where it is, I had to add a kern of 80. Now you tell me the size of the space
    added before the semicolon; I don't know what units inDesign is using.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inferieur_4465.jpg]\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2011-10-29 19:31:03'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I forgot to add that the em size of the font is 2048 and the width of the
    space character is 512.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-29 20:14:16'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "From what I have seen here and elsewhere, Indesign uses milli-ems. I'd guess
    from your experiment that their 'thin' space is ca. twelve to the em and the word
    spacing is two-fifths of an em.\r\n\r\nSounds like me and my pocket calculator
    are both gone cuckoo for cocoa puffs."
  created: '2011-10-29 21:51:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If you are using InDesign, you will notice that, for appearances only,  it
    acts as if all fonts are on basis 1000 when it comes to manual kerning and displayed
    values.  Apparently, InD calculates (with rounding) what a 2048 font would be
    if it were rounded down to one thousand units.  This is what is displayed in the
    InD kern value.  I assume it does not really change the actual value but just
    shows you a conversion factor value.
  created: '2011-10-29 22:22:52'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: If those units are on a basis  1000, then 1000/12 is 83 which is about the
    kern after the r preceding the semicolon; that is indeed twelve to an am, as Reynir
    got. That may be an indication that four to an em was not the intended meaning
    for the <em>espace fine</em> to be put before some punctuations marks. To better
    see what their actual usage is (or was), I think the same experiment should be
    carried on some of their most beautifully edited books.
  created: '2011-10-30 03:00:54'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is from an edition of Pantagruel, Paris : Imprimerie nationale, 1990,
    c1989. According to the colophon, the book was hand composed using a Garamont
    character also known as \"Romain de l'universit\xE9\" (<em>Le texte de Pantagruel
    a \xE9t\xE9 compos\xE9 \xE0 la main \xE0 l'aide des caract\xE8res Garamont \xE9galement
    connus sous le nom de \xAB Romain de l'universit\xE9 \xBB. L'ouvrage a \xE9t\xE9
    r\xE9alis\xE9 par l'atelier du livre</em>). I am not trained to guess the size
    of the spacing before the semicolon.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pantagruel2_4466.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-02 16:54:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "I have here a large book of miscellaneous occasion poetry printed in 1945.
    Looks to me like the text is en-spaced. Were it used, the normal thin space would
    indeed be thin in that book.\r\n\r\nJust for fun, here is a small sample from
    this book (a part of the author's redo of Longfellow's \"The Arrow and the Song\")
    translated into English by myself:\r\n\r\n\"I shot an arrow into the air,\r\nand
    it flew away to the-Devil-knows-where.\r\nA raven sitting on a weathervane\r\nthought
    it was an aeroplane.\""
  created: '2011-11-02 19:23:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Michel: <em>\u2026so that no space has been squeezed or expanded for justification\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    so.\r\nThe word spaces of final lines were often made wider to balance out with
    the average word space of the entire paragraph/column, which is wider than a type
    space, due to justification."
  created: '2011-11-02 20:10:41'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "@ Nick.\r\nThat makes sense.\r\nOn the other hand, I notice that the comma
    after <em>Signis</em> is italic but all the semicolons are upright, even after
    an italic. Would the spacing between the word and the semicolon be the reason?\r\n\r\nps.
    Or it might be the opposite. The spacing might be there to justify an upright
    interrogation mark or an upright exclamation mark after some citation in italics?"
  created: '2011-11-02 20:56:28'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "By the way, here is a similar treatment of semicolons in a dictionary published
    by the Oxford University Press, (c) 1963.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/reduction2_6277.jpg]"
  created: '2011-11-03 03:28:31'
date: '2011-10-18 18:05:44'
title: Question about thin spaces, em and en, kerning units...

---
