---
author:
  name: dzi11
body: "I've read so many articles saying only use serif. I've seen articles that say
  both work. In my publications class there is this huge debate whether we use Serif
  font or San Serif in body copy... \r\n\r\nGive me all the good reasons why Serif
  is so much better than san serif when it comes to the body copy of the articles.\r\n\r\nIf
  san serif works please say why. \r\n\r\nPlease explain thought. No 1 liners like:
  <em>\"Serif is easier to read.\"</em> - but why is it easier to read?\r\n\r\nsamples:\r\nSome
  reasons why san-serif suck:\r\nI vs l \r\n\r\nWhy Serif's suck:\r\nb vs h\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Give me all the good reasons why Serif is so much better than san serif
    when it comes to the body copy of the articles.</cite>\r\n\r\nPrattling on the
    superiority of serif fonts makes for great filler text in pretentious books about
    typesetting. And sticking with serifs keeps old people who read newspapers from
    complaining about font changes. That's about it."
  created: '2011-10-19 21:38:30'
- author:
    name: dzi11
  body: "@DunchwichType I feel the same. I feel Serif is simply formal whilst vs San-Serif
    seems more informal. \r\n\r\nSo if our student-made(written/designed) magazine
    is based on 5 articles based on each of the 5 senses. Do you feel more informal
    or formal? \r\n\r\nThanks for letting me pick your brain!"
  created: '2011-10-19 22:06:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Subtle, complex forms are more suited to subtle, complex ideas.\r\nDo you
    want to dance to the music in a club, or listen to it in a concert hall; prepare
    vegetables to it, or have it as background over dinner?"
  created: '2011-10-19 22:39:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Letters do not need serifs to be subtle and complex. Sans faces like Magma
    and Whitney have plenty of complexity and feel appropriate when used to express
    complex ideas.
  created: '2011-10-19 22:45:10'
- author:
    name: dzi11
  body: Nick-Shinn what sanserif typeface would you use for ANY article's body copy?
    Just curious based on your last reply...
  created: '2011-10-19 22:56:38'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "    \u201CThe sanserif only seems to be the simpler script. It is a form
    that was violently reduced for little children. For adults it is more difficult
    to read than serifed roman type, whose serifs were never meant to be ornamental.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014Jan
    Tschichold, On Typography (1952)"
  created: '2011-10-19 23:24:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It depends on the publication and article.\r\nI would typically use a serif
    font for the main text and a sans for the sidebar.\r\nIn this mid-1990s example
    (sorry for the poor quality) Perpetua and Gill Sans.\r\nIt would be strange to
    imagine it the other way around.\r\nBut of course, in a more modernist (single
    face) layout one could use two weights of the same sans for main body and sidebar\u2014but
    that wouldn't be such a nice or easy play of counterpoint for such a complex editorial
    hierarchy. Here I was able to use the same spec for subheadings in both main and
    sidebar, without it becoming same-y and not adequately differentiating the hierarchy.
    Had I use Perpetua Bold for the main subheadings, harmony would have been lacking.
    Counterpoint and harmony\u2014musical terms, but very relevant to design.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MGS_6679.jpg]"
  created: '2011-10-19 23:24:16'
- author:
    name: dzi11
  body: "So this is based on a degenerated society & lack of tradition, but the notion
    is still engrained in society...Great quote to understand history. \r\n\r\n\r\nTechnically
    would any book font work for san serif? Example for web: georgia vs verdana..
    Gil sans feels more like a sub-headline font "
  created: '2011-10-20 01:17:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u201CSanserif, looked at in detail, is admittedly capable of improvement,
    but there is no doubt that it is the basic form from which the typeface of the
    future will grow.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014Jan Tschichold, The New Typography (1928)"
  created: '2011-10-20 04:17:43'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I don't like serifs because I'm tired of looking at them.
  created: '2011-10-20 13:00:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There are no definitive tests as of yet to decide this question. However,
    I think there are good reasons to think that serifs are more readable for extended
    text, at small (text) sizes. \r\n\r\nSome reasons:\r\n\r\n1. Tests have shown
    that the extremes of the letters are more crucial in detecting them, and the serif
    faces are more differentiated. \r\n\r\n2. Generally speaking, there is an agreement
    that sans of similar weight need more leading to be read comfortably. This seems
    to indicate that the serifs help the eye in identifying and holding to the line,
    and moving from line to line. \r\n\r\n3. But the most compelling argument to me
    is that by now people are very familiar with sans letters being used in text.
    Yet for material that calls for extended reading, the preference of publishers
    and it seems readers remains overwhelmingly for serifs. \r\n\r\nBecause of the
    great familiarity with sans, and the fact that extended text is occasionally set
    in sans, I don't think that the preference for serifs can be put down to conservatism
    alone. There has been a push for increasing use of sans faces for nearly a hundred
    years, and they have been generally accepted for other uses, but not for extended
    text. To me that says there are advantages to serifs for reading comfort. \r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    this seems to be not so clear a preference when it comes to the screen. With the
    difficulties of low resolution, it seems that serifs are less of an advantage
    at small sizes, or no advantage. \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-10-20 14:15:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Readability studies tend to focus on a very small part of the document (if
    the document is even considered), over a very brief period of time. Really, they
    are decoding studies.\r\n\r\nBut as much as one decodes letters or words, one
    reads documents.\r\nAnd that is why page layout and typography are important elements
    of readability.\r\n\r\nIt's not really surprising that people prefer serifed type
    for the tombstone layout of books.\r\nGreat blocks of justified sans text lack
    flavor.\r\nConsider the potential brutality of modernist architecture; the masters
    of the genre incorporated a human touch (Corbusier's accomodation of antique chairs)
    or organic material (Mies' use of marble and wood texture) to offset the austerity.\r\n\r\nAnd
    in the more complex editorial layout with many layers of hierarchy, as I noted
    above, serif is preferred for the main text, and sans for ancillary copy. \r\n\r\nTo
    elaborate on this relationship: it is a principle of design that a large area
    of lighter tone may be balanced against a smaller area of darker tone. This holds
    for both traditional symmetrical layouts and modernist asymmetry. Now look at
    these four ways to combine sans and serif in subheading and body. One of them
    doesn't look right: the third\u2014serif subhead with sans body. The second, sans
    subhead with serif body, offers the highest degree of counterpoint.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lorem_4099.png]\r\n\r\nPut
    these two effects together, and it becomes clear that in documents which have
    both a hierarchy of text elements, and pages which are predominantly body text,
    serif type will be preferred for the body text."
  created: '2011-10-20 20:23:42'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ typodermic\r\n\r\nI don't like Sans because I am tired of looking at them.\r\n\r\n@
    Dustin\r\n\r\nNow you have two differing viewpoints :-)"
  created: '2011-10-20 20:38:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick your visual is interesting, but doesn't make the case that this is purely
    an aesthetic matter, and comfort in decoding text is not a factor. The bold serif
    with the sans doesn't seem to work I think because the thins of the bold are thinner
    than the horizontals of the sans. \r\n\r\nIn any case, this still poses no barrier
    to having sans for both subtitles and extended running text, which as I noted
    is relatively unusual, particularly with wider columns. I think my reasons for
    suspecting there serifs are more comfortable in extended text at small size in
    print still hold.   "
  created: '2011-10-23 04:54:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The bold serif with the sans doesn't seem to work I think because the
    thins of the bold are thinner than the horizontals of the sans.</em>\r\n\r\nWhatever
    the reason, this is the \"normal\" kind of bold sans, with a relatively high degree
    of contrast between the dominant stems and the lesser stems and serifs. \r\n\r\nThere
    are certain kinds of relationships that work between serif subheads and sans body.\r\nFor
    instance, as your thinking indicates, it is possible to match the secondary stem
    weight of the serif with the stem weight of the sans\u2014for instance, Bodoni
    Bold against News Gothic. Another combination is to use a slab serif bold.\r\nBut
    these are special cases, and the majority of serif faces don't work as bold subheadings
    with sans body.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026sans for both subtitles and extended running
    text, which as I noted is relatively unusual, particularly with wider columns.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    so. That combination, which may be considered modernist, is much used in all kinds
    of publications. There are many other kinds of running text besides literary and
    academic books."
  created: '2011-10-23 05:52:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">is much used in all kinds of publications. There are many other kinds of
    running text besides literary and academic books.\r\n\r\nBoth of your statements
    are true, but they don't conflict with the reality that extended print text is
    overwhelmingly in serif faces. And your reasoning doesn't explain that. \r\n\r\nFor
    example, just randomly clicking on ten newspaper first pages at the Newseum site,
    both in the US and Mexico, main body text in all of them is in serifs. I happen
    have from the public library at the moment five popular non-fiction books\u2014not
    academic or literary\u2014and all have body text in serif faces. \r\n\r\nIn fact,
    sans for main text is unusual, particularly in books. But even in newspapers and
    magazines, it is usually used for side bars or secondary, usually brief stories.
    \ My experience in as a reader for 60 years is that over 90% of extended text
    in print is serif, including today. \r\n\r\nYour reply doesn't doesn't answer
    the question: Why is there an overwhelming preference for serifs for extended
    text in print, in spite of complete reader familiarity with sans faces? My answer
    is that there's an edge in reading comfort of serifs at text sizes. Do you have
    another explanation?     "
  created: '2011-10-23 15:25:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I gave two page-layout reasons for the predominance of serifed body
    text.\r\n\r\nThe first\u2014that a plain page of sans is rather dull\u2014has
    nothing to do with ease of decoding, or reading comfort as you term it.\r\nThere
    is a widespread cultural dislike for artefacts which are plain and bland; people
    are generally uncomfortable with a simple design if it doesn't have a texture.
    Why else do we have patterns and decoration?\r\n\r\nAs for the second, the \"complexity
    of hierarchy\" argument, without statistical comparisons I'm not convinced by
    your personal experience. I'm sure I could walk into a bookstore and find all
    kinds of examples to support my theory. In my own experience as a typographer\u2014although
    not quite as long as your experience as a reader\u2014I can say that I have designed
    a lot of modernist documents with sans serif throughout, as well as many merely
    modern documents (see the financial newsletter above) with serif body and sans
    subheads and sidebars; and by so doing I was following well-worn paths.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"reader familiarity\" theory is dubious, because it is not readers who determine
    body types. Readers are at several removes: first typographers have to choose
    type, then their superiors approve it, then the client. That in itself is a strong
    argument for tradition, in which, despite \"complete reader familiarity with sans
    faces\", serifs got there first, and refuse to give ground."
  created: '2011-10-24 02:08:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, you are just not acknowledging reality if you don't acknowledge the
    overwhelming dominance of serifs in print text for extended reading. Just go into
    any library, or look at any newstand. It's just so overwhelming that it's ridiculous
    to deny. I didn't even see *any* newspaper font pages on the Newseum site where
    sans was the predominant text font.  \r\n\r\nThe modernist movement did try to
    use sans much more, and still some people try to look \"designer\" by doing it.
    But the reality is that it never caught on, as sans for titles did catch on. That's
    why to me the \"conservatism\" argument doesn't work. If it were all conservatism\u2014which
    I acknowledge is an important factor\u2014then sans for titles would have never
    been accepted \r\n\r\nAs to your argument of sans titles with sans text being
    dull. Is that even with different weights and sizes? It sure didn't stop modernists
    from doing exactly that. But it's never caught on in print. \r\n\r\nAnd meanwhile
    on the screen sans for extended text are much more common. Wouldn't your aesthetic
    argument go equally for the screen as not having sans headings and text? Yet they
    are widely used like this. I think that is evidence for reading comfort being
    a factor. On screen sans and serifs are more nearly equally bad, whereas in print
    to me serifs have a clear edge for reading comfort at small size for extended
    text. "
  created: '2011-10-24 02:53:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, you are just not acknowledging reality if you don't acknowledge
    the overwhelming dominance of serifs in print text for extended reading.</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    I'm not disputing that. (You were disagreeing with me over the amount of sans
    body in sidebars and boxes.)\r\n\r\nHowever, I am proposing that there are layout
    (page-level) reasons for this, rather than your emphasis on ease of decoding (letter
    and word recognition).\r\n\r\n<em>As to your argument of sans titles with sans
    text being dull.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't argue that. \r\n\r\n<em>I think that is
    evidence for reading comfort being a factor.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, as I stated, reading
    comfort is important.\r\nYou argue that letter and word decoding comfort is important.\r\nSure,
    if you want to call efficiency of decoding \"comfort\".\r\nBut reading is a much
    more holistic experience than that, and typographic culture far richer.\r\nThe
    concept of comfort is appropriate to the page and the overall reading experience,
    in which layout and typography play an important role.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 04:45:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I am here following Matthew Luckiesh's concept of readability, which
    is well defined and which I talked about at TypeCon last summer and here in another
    thread. Fatigue shows up and is measurable by increase in blink rate, when other
    factors are held constant. \r\n\r\nThe point is, Luckiesh got significant differences
    varying typefaces, with other layout factors being similar. He didn't look at
    sans, as these weren't used for text at that time in the US (1938-39). I'm hoping
    that repetition of his experiments will validate his work, and can be taken further
    to shed light on several questions about sans. \r\n\r\nLayout factors are important,
    but my argument is that the decisive thing here is an inherent problem with sans,
    or at least sans at small sizes for extended text in print. I'm guessing they
    they create a greater burden of fatigue. "
  created: '2011-10-24 05:05:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I know where you're coming from.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm coming from a different
    place.\r\n\r\nSpeaking as a typographer and art director, I'm inclined to lay
    out a page with a certain preference for main body text not primarily because
    I want to lessen the reader's fatigue, but because I want to organize all the
    text into a functional hierarchy (by means of typographic harmony and counterpoint),
    and create an engaging document. As I have argued above, making the main body
    serifed facilitates this.\r\n\r\nIn comparison, I believe that the putative greater
    ease for the reader in decoding serifed text at the level of letter and word plays
    a very small role in the present preponderance of serifed body text in print publications.\r\n\r\nWe
    are cultural creatures who rarely take the straightest line between a and b."
  created: '2011-10-24 05:41:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, we are cultural creatures. But our physiology also has a lot to do with
    how we see, and how we read. \r\n\r\nThe only way to resolve this question would
    be by testing and it is testable, to this extent: we can have the same layouts
    and parameters (x height, weight) and the same layout, and see how much of a difference
    serifs make. If they do make a difference, I think that would be a strong argument.
    \r\n\r\nMy point is that culture changes, and has changed over past hundred years,
    when sans have been vigorously pushed by designers for print text. But with uncommon
    exceptions, they haven't been adopted in print, but have been on screen. That
    to me argues for a cause that transcends culture, namely human physiology. \r\n\r\nYour
    \"culture\" argument also doesn't explain the screen/print divide, so to me it's
    particularly wanting there. \r\n\r\nYes, culture is a huge influence, but don't
    the limits of human physiology influence culture?  "
  created: '2011-10-24 14:19:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026when sans have been vigorously pushed by designers for print text.</em>\r\n\r\nModernism
    in general didn't penetrate mass media. \r\nTschichold pushed one way and then
    the other.\r\n\r\n<em>But with uncommon exceptions, they haven't been adopted
    in print,</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, you're privileging academic texts and literature
    over catalogues and manuals.\r\nI worked for many years in business-to-business
    marketing, and we generally used sans body text for industrial product brochures,
    advertisements and catalogues.  \r\n\r\n<em>The only way to resolve this question
    would be by testing\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThere you go again.\r\nIn the issue of science
    vs. the humanities, you propose a laboratory test  as definitive!\r\nA statistical
    analysis of media would be the cultural alternative, rather than your prejudiced
    statements about \"acknowledging reality\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 15:57:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This is not an issue of science vs humanities. That seems to be a big issue
    in your head, but it's not in mine. The issue is what's true. You can do both
    an analysis of statistics of media, and tests on reading fatigue. It's not one
    or the other. \r\n\r\nOn the issue of statistics, I just don't think there's any
    contest on the prevalence of serifs. You have to distinguish between display,
    captions, and also things like tables, the phone book, etc., on one hand, and,
    on the other hand, where extended reading of continuous text is of primary importance.
    Where extended reading is the main thing, serifs just dominate tremendously.  "
  created: '2011-10-24 18:06:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This is not an issue of science vs humanities./em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps not
    science in general, but a certain kind of behavioral lab testing, which represents
    the limited scope of reading science. Ergonomic lab tests cannot explain cultural
    phenomena. If that were the case, people wouldn't be walking around in high-heel
    shoes.\r\n\r\n<em>The issue is what's true. </em>\r\n\r\nYou think that the predominance
    of serifs for body text (if that happens to be the case) could be explained by
    the fact that serifs might beat sans in a lab test.\r\n\r\nEven if that turns
    out to be true, it's no proof because, as I have demonstrated, there are cultural
    explanations.\r\n\r\nHow do we weigh one against the other?\r\n\r\n<em> I just
    don't think there's any contest on the prevalence of serifs.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    disagree, and I have given cultural\u2014i.e. historical, socio-economic, and
    aesthetic (predisposition to greater play of harmony and counterpoint in page
    layouts)\u2014reasons as to why this may be, reasons which IMHO far outweigh the
    \"ease of decoding\" theory.\r\n\r\nHowever, I do disagree with your contention
    of tremendous domination. It seems to me that the presence of serif or sans in
    body text is determined by genre, and a significant number of genres employ sans
    body text.\r\n\r\nFor instance, I recently designed a custom typeface for a branding
    agency, for their client, a bank.\r\nIt's a sans serif (to replace the present
    sans serif), in the four main styles, and will be used for all customer communications.\r\nThe
    driving concern in this rebranding was corporate identity, of course.\r\nThe main
    concern in its typography was not readability, but how the type represented the
    brand, which was most apparent in display settings. A sans with single-storey
    \"a\" was requested. It was understood that the same type would work well right
    down the hierarchy, to body text and footnotes. A two-storey \"a\" will be available
    in a stylistic set, for better text legibility.\r\nThis is my experience of how
    typography happens in practice, which is at odds with your observations and theories."
  created: '2011-10-24 20:57:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The answer to 'serif' vs. 'sans' is all about the context. \r\n\r\n - what
    is the type being displayed on?\r\n - what size?\r\n - how much text?\r\n - what
    kind of text?\r\n - how's the leading/line length?\r\n - color?\r\n - where is
    it being read?\r\n - who's reading it?\r\n - what is the subject matter?\r\n -
    what is the aesthetic objective?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 23:37:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The jury has never returned an absolute verdict.  People have sometimes chosen
    a verdict that fits their own way of thinking or even suits their personal interpretation
    of research data.  True, there may, in the future, be a more definitive set of
    studies that can be more usable in making the decision, but so far, I have yet
    to see \"the light\".\r\n\r\nYour real question should be a bit more specific
    to the audience, purpose, and message of the text you want to set.  Clearly, as
    you can see from the responses you have gotten, there is a difference of opinion
    on the subject.  That leads me to believe there is also a difference of solution
    to the problem depending upon the specific situation.\r\n\r\n\r\nSerifs don't
    suck;\r\n\r\nSans serifs don't suck;\r\n\r\nBadly used instances of either or
    both can suck."
  created: '2011-10-24 23:57:20'
date: '2011-10-19 21:20:08'
node_type: forum
title: Publication Debate - Serif

---
