---
author:
  name: billdavis
  picture: 109965
body: "WOBURN, Mass., Nov. 10, 2011 \u2013 Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. (Nasdaq:
  TYPE) and Bitstream Inc. (Nasdaq: BITS) today announced they have entered into a
  definitive agreement for Monotype Imaging to acquire Bitstream\u2019s font business
  in an all cash merger valued at $50 million, subject to adjustments based on the
  closing net asset value of Bitstream. The transaction has been approved by the boards
  of directors for both companies.\r\n\r\nMonotype Imaging intends to acquire Bitstream\u2019s
  popular MyFonts.comsm website, featuring 89,000 fonts from nearly 900 foundries,
  and Bitstream\u2019s widely used WhatTheFont\u2122 identification service. The transaction
  will also include the Bitstream\xAE typeface library, the company\u2019s Font Fusion\xAE
  and Bitstream Panorama\u2122 font rendering and layout technologies, a range of
  fonts for embedded and mobile environments, and 10 patents. Approximately 15 employees
  from Bitstream\u2019s U.S. operations, based in Marlborough, Mass., are expected
  to join Monotype Imaging, in addition to approximately 40 engineers and type designers
  who work at Bitstream\u2019s development facility in Noida, India.\r\n\r\nThe combination
  of Monotype Imaging\u2019s global reach and financial strength with Bitstream\u2019s
  renowned e-commerce site and OEM business is expected to enable Monotype Imaging
  to serve a broader set of markets, while delivering high-quality user experiences
  on any publishing medium, platform or device.\r\n\r\n\u201CThis is an important
  milestone in our history, as we combine two entities that care passionately about
  type,\u201D said Doug Shaw, president and chief executive officer at Monotype Imaging.
  \u201CThe acquisition fits squarely in our stated strategy of expanding IP, growing
  our customer base, capturing emerging opportunities, and increasing momentum in
  our growth businesses. Bitstream will bring a strong e-commerce business and a thriving
  online community that is highly complementary to our strength in serving corporations
  and brands. We\u2019ll also gain an expanded OEM customer base for our Display Imaging
  business, operations in India, and a team of highly respected type experts to add
  to our own.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CThis is a historic marriage,\u201D said John Collins,
  vice president and chief technology officer at Bitstream. \u201CCombining MyFonts\u2019
  success in bringing together cutting-edge type designs from 21st century designers
  with Monotype Imaging\u2019s huge library of classic faces and top-notch design
  expertise sets up for a strong, exciting future for type.\u201D\r\n\r\nBased on
  information disclosed in Bitstream\u2019s filings, Monotype Imaging estimates that
  the portion of the business the company will be acquiring had font-related revenue
  of approximately $17.0 million in 2010. Upon closing, Monotype Imaging anticipates
  that the majority of revenue will be included in the company\u2019s Creative Professional
  business. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to net adjusted EBITDA and
  non-GAAP earnings per share, including the impact of non-recurring merger-related
  costs within the first year of closing.\r\n\r\nThe transaction is expected to close
  at the end of the first quarter of 2012, pending the satisfaction of customary closing
  conditions, the approval of Bitstream\u2019s shareholders, and the spinoff by Bitstream
  of its mobile browsing and variable data publishing businesses into a new, standalone
  company. Monotype Imaging anticipates financing the deal through a combination of
  cash balances and the company\u2019s secured revolving credit facility.\r\n\r\nConference
  call details\r\nMonotype Imaging will host a conference call for financial analysts
  and shareholders tomorrow, Nov. 11, 2011, at 8:00 a.m. EST to discuss the company\u2019s
  agreement to acquire Bitstream\u2019s font business. Individuals who are interested
  in listening to the audio webcast should log on to the Investor Relations portion
  of the About Us section of Monotype Imaging\u2019s website at www.monotypeimaging.com.
  The live call can also be accessed by dialing 1-877-941-9205 (domestic) or 1-480-629-9692
  (international) using passcode 4488056. If individuals are unable to listen to the
  live call, the audio webcast will be archived in the Investor Relations portion
  of the company\u2019s website.\r\n\r\nForward-looking statements\r\nThis press release
  contains certain forward-looking statements about Monotype Imaging and Bitstream
  including statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning Monotype Imaging\u2019s
  proposed acquisition of Bitstream. Actual events or results may differ materially
  from those described, expressed or implied in this press release due to a number
  of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of Monotype Imaging
  or Bitstream. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the possibility
  that the transaction will not close or that the closing may be delayed, general
  economic conditions, industry specific conditions and the possibility that Monotype
  Imaging or Bitstream may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or
  competitive factors. In addition, information is available in the documents that
  Monotype Imaging and Bitstream, respectively, file with the SEC on Forms 10-K, 10-Q
  and 8-K. These filings identify and address other important factors that could cause
  Monotype Imaging\u2019s and Bitstream\u2019s respective financial and operational
  results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements
  set forth in this document. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of
  the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur,
  or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations
  or financial condition of Monotype Imaging or Bitstream. Monotype Imaging and Bitstream
  are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date
  of this press release to conform to actual results.\r\n\r\nAbout Monotype Imaging\r\nMonotype
  Imaging combines technology with design to help the world communicate. Based in
  Woburn, Mass. with offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia, Monotype Imaging brings
  text imaging and graphical user interface capabilities to consumer electronics devices
  such as laser printers, copiers, mobile phones, navigation devices, digital cameras,
  e-book readers, automotive devices, tablets, digital televisions, set-top boxes
  and consumer appliances. The company also provides printer drivers, page description
  language interpreters, printer user interface technology and color imaging solutions
  to printer manufacturers and OEMs (original equipment manufacturers). Monotype Imaging
  technologies are combined with access to more than 14,000 typefaces from the Monotype\xAE,
  Linotype\xAE and ITC\xAE typeface libraries \u2013 home to some of the world's most
  widely used designs, including the Times New Roman\xAE, Helvetica\xAE and ITC Franklin
  Gothic\u2122 typefaces. Fonts are licensed to creative, business and Web professionals
  through e-commerce portals, direct and indirect sales and custom design services.
  Monotype Imaging offers industry-standard font solutions that support all of the
  world's major languages. Information about Monotype Imaging can be found at www.monotypeimaging.com.\r\n\r\nMonotype
  is a trademark of Monotype Imaging Inc. registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
  Office and may be registered in certain jurisdictions. Times New Roman is a trademark
  of The Monotype Corp. registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and may
  be registered in certain other jurisdictions. Helvetica is a trademark of Linotype
  Corp. registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and may be registered in
  certain jurisdictions in the name of Linotype Corp. or its licensee Linotype GmbH.
  ITC is a trademark of International Typeface Corp. registered in the U.S. Patent
  and Trademark Office and may be registered in certain jurisdictions. ITC Franklin
  Gothic is a trademark of International Typeface Corp. and may be registered in certain
  jurisdictions. Bitstream, Font Fusion and Pageflex are registered trademarks of
  Bitstream Inc. MyFonts and MyFonts.com are registered service marks of Bitstream
  Inc. WhatTheFont, Bitstream Panorama and Bolt are trademarks of Bitstream Inc. All
  other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. \xA92011 Monotype
  Imaging Holdings Inc. All rights reserved.\r\n\r\n# # #\r\n\r\nFREQUENTLY ASKED
  QUESTIONS\r\n\r\n1. Who is Bitstream?\r\nBitstream was founded in 1981 as a font
  foundry and today develops software technologies and applications for the graphic
  art and mobile communications industries. Bitstream\u2019s award-winning fonts and
  font technologies enable device manufacturers and application developers to render
  the highest quality text in any language, on any device, at any resolution. The
  company\u2019s MyFonts brand is one of the world\u2019s leading online providers
  of fonts to consumers.\r\n\r\n2. Which parts of Bitstream\u2019s business does Monotype
  Imaging intend to acquire?\r\nMonotype Imaging intends to acquire Bitstream\u2019s
  font business, which comprises e-commerce solutions and OEM technologies. E-commerce
  solutions include Bitstream\u2019s popular MyFonts.com website, featuring 89,000
  fonts from nearly 900 foundries, and Bitstream\u2019s acclaimed WhatTheFont identification
  service, in addition to the Bitstream typeface library. OEM assets include Bitstream\u2019s
  Font Fusion and Bitstream Panorama font rendering and layout technologies, as well
  as a range of fonts for embedded and mobile environments. Monotype Imaging also
  intends to acquire 10 patents, covering areas from OEM technologies to the company\u2019s
  WhatTheFont application.\r\n\r\n3. How large is Bitstream in revenues, relative
  to the portion of the business Monotype Imaging expects to acquire?\r\nBitstream\u2019s
  font business is growing, and based on information disclosed in Bitstream\u2019s
  filings, Monotype Imaging estimates that the portion of the business the company
  intends to acquire had font-related revenue of approximately $17.0 million in 2010.
  Upon closing, Monotype Imaging anticipates that the majority of revenue will be
  included in the company\u2019s Creative Professional business.\r\n\r\n4. Why does
  Monotype Imaging intend to acquire the font business of Bitstream?\r\nMonotype Imaging\u2019s
  mission is to combine technology with design to help the world communicate. Type
  is at the heart of that mission and represents the company\u2019s core strength.
  The addition of Bitstream\u2019s font business is expected to enhance Monotype Imaging\u2019s
  ability to accelerate growth across its customer base, expand the company\u2019s
  IP and capture emerging opportunities, particularly in Web font services and Monotype
  Imaging\u2019s Display Imaging business. In addition, the company believes that
  its global reach and financial strength combined with Bitstream\u2019s renowned
  MyFonts website and OEM business will position Monotype Imaging to serve a broader
  set of markets, while delivering high-quality user experiences on any publishing
  medium, platform or device.\r\n\r\n5. What is the background that has led to the
  possibility of this acquisition?\r\nIn September of 2010, Bitstream announced that
  it had hired a financial advisory company to advise Bitstream with respect to business
  opportunities for enhancing shareholder value. Monotype Imaging\u2019s interest
  in Bitstream\u2019s font business has stemmed from a fundamental passion for type,
  which is at the center of Monotype Imaging\u2019s expertise. When the opportunity
  was presented to pursue Bitstream\u2019s font business, Monotype Imaging saw this
  as natural fit. For example, Bitstream\u2019s approach to serving broad markets
  by way of new and distinctive typefaces is expected to complement Monotype Imaging\u2019s
  strength in leveraging its historic, classic type collections and multilingual offering
  to meet the needs of corporations and brands. Monotype Imaging believes the acquisition
  will dovetail effectively with its team, technology and culture.\r\n\r\n6. What
  parts of Bitstream are not being acquired by Monotype Imaging?\r\nMonotype Imaging
  is not acquiring Bitstream\u2019s Bolt\u2122 mobile browsing and Pageflex\xAE variable
  data publishing technologies. These businesses are expected to be spun out to form
  a new company.\r\n\r\n7. What are the financial terms of the transaction?\r\nMonotype
  Imaging intends to acquire Bitstream\u2019s font business in an all cash merger
  valued at $50 million, subject to adjustments based on the closing net asset value
  of Bitstream. The transaction is expected to be financed through a combination of
  cash and debt from Monotype Imaging\u2019s existing revolving credit facility. The
  company anticipates the transaction will be accretive to net adjusted EBITDA and
  non-GAAP earnings per share, including the impact of non-recurring merger-related
  costs within the first year of closing.\r\n\r\n8. When will the acquisition be closed?\r\nThe
  transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter in 2012. The transaction
  is subject to Bitstream\u2019s shareholder approval, customary closing conditions
  and the spinoff by Bitstream of its mobile browsing and variable data publishing
  businesses.\r\n\r\n9. How many Bitstream employees are joining Monotype Imaging?\r\nApproximately
  15 employees are expected to join Monotype Imaging from Bitstream\u2019s U.S. operation,
  in addition to approximately 40 engineers and type designers in Noida, India.\r\n\r\n10.
  How are customers expected to benefit from the acquisition?\r\nMonotype Imaging
  expects the acquisition to enhance the company\u2019s e-commerce and Web font businesses
  through a greater selection of fonts and technology solutions. For example, Monotype
  Imaging intends to support, promote and grow the MyFonts brand and website, which
  is the resource of choice for a strong community of loyal customers. Monotype Imaging
  anticipates that OEMs will also have access to a greater portfolio of solutions,
  particularly in the company\u2019s Display Imaging business.\r\n\r\n11. How will
  Monotype Imaging begin to integrate Bitstream\u2019s products and services?\r\nMonotype
  Imaging will not be able to begin integrating or working with Bitstream\u2019s products
  and services until after the acquisition closes. At that time, more information
  will be provided with respect to integration efforts.\r\n\r\n12. Will Bitstream
  agreements continue to be honored?\r\nUpon closing of the transaction, Monotype
  Imaging will continue to honor the terms and conditions of all existing agreements
  for current Bitstream customers.\r\nAdditional information about the merger and
  where to find it\r\nIn connection with the proposed merger, Bitstream will file
  a proxy statement with the SEC. Additionally, Monotype Imaging and Bitstream will
  file other relevant materials in connection with the proposed acquisition of Bitstream
  by Monotype Imaging pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger by
  and among Monotype Imaging, Birch Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary
  of Monotype Imaging, and Bitstream. The materials to be filed by Bitstream with
  the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC\u2019s website at www.sec.gov.
  Investors and security holders of Bitstream are urged to read the proxy statement
  and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting
  or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain
  important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.\r\n\r\nMonotype
  Imaging, Bitstream and their respective directors, executive officers and other
  members of its management and employees, under SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants
  in the solicitation of proxies of Bitstream stockholders in connection with the
  proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information
  regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Monotype Imaging\u2019s
  executive officers and directors in the solicitation by reading the proxy statement
  and other relevant materials filed with the SEC when they become available. Information
  concerning the interests of Bitstream\u2019s participants in the solicitation, which
  may, in some cases, be different than those of Bitstream\u2019s stockholders generally,
  is set forth in the materials filed with the SEC on Form 10-K and will be set forth
  in the proxy statement relating to the merger when it becomes available.\r\n\r\nContacts:\r\nMonotype
  Imaging Inc.\r\nVikki Quick, 781-970-6115\r\nvikki.quick@monotypeimaging.com\r\n\r\nInvestor
  Relations:\r\nStaci Mortenson, 781-970-6120\r\nir@monotypeimaging.com\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Shouldn't this be in the 'Mono(poly)' thread? ;) \r\n\r\nIs there a short
    list of foundries and font sources that Monotype is NOT planning on acquiring?\r\n\r\n
    \ - Herb"
  created: '2011-11-11 20:03:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Groan. No longer will it be possible to get an imitation version of just
    about every well-known older typeface by buying a Corel product. People will actually
    have to pay good money for fonts now!\r\n\r\nWait, that's <em>good</em> news at
    least to you guys..."
  created: '2011-11-12 17:48:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Guess it's back to sneaking around with WSI and Brendel fonts and getting
    hold of a font editor to fix the suckers oneself.
  created: '2011-11-13 00:05:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: You are an idiot!
  created: '2011-11-13 00:41:44'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@terminal design\r\n\r\nI neither know you nor T\xE9 Rowan, but this the
    second time in raw I see you posting that \"You are an idiot!\", this looks like
    a form of psychological projection to me."
  created: '2011-11-13 14:29:18'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: Maybe it's just because I was a Word Perfect fan in my youth, but I've always
    had a soft spot for Bitstream fonts. Some of their "knock-offs" were quite good
    (Aldine 401 was a better cut of Bembo than the official release from Monotype,
    for example) and they had a few originals that are quite nice too (Charter and
    Chianti are personal favorites). Hopefully, the Bitstream fonts will stay available
    with the new ownership, but something tells me that Monotype bought them mainly
    to get myfonts.com...
  created: '2011-11-13 20:03:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I'm hoping to see new Flintstone and Star Trek font packs! :-)
  created: '2011-11-13 20:57:05'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Up until now there were really big price differences for what I like to call
    the old workhouse fonts between webshops (40% in some cases). My guess is that
    the investors in this deal want to have some return soon and that the price differentiation
    will be a thing of the past within a few months. \r\n\r\nInternet shopping being
    what it is there is no international or national authority that will intervene\u2026
    The worldwide font market is something in the region of 100 million USD or such,
    I belief, and as such the tiniest of businesses that might ever come under the
    scrutiny of governments or euro commissioners.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I did prefer shopping
    for my fonts at the boutiques that don\u2019t shift their wares through MT, LT
    and/or MyFonts \u2026 And will do so ever so fervently in future."
  created: '2011-11-13 22:28:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "@ Khaled Hosney\r\n\r\nProject THIS!"
  created: '2011-11-14 01:21:43'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@Khaled - I prefer to think either he''s just going through caffeine withdrawal,
    whoever does the cooking has been in a foul mood at late, or the Christmas ads
    got him in the ''nads.'
  created: '2011-11-14 18:46:31'
date: '2011-11-11 01:15:02'
title: Monotype Imaging to Acquire the Font Business of Bitstream Inc.

---
