---
author:
  name: Double Elephant
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI'm starting a thread about bygone quirks in book design. \r\n\r\nWhen
  I say quirks I mean things like endpapers, a note on the typeface at the back of
  the book, vignettes for each chapter opener, the first word of the next page at
  the bottom of the current page etc etc. \r\n\r\nCan anyone think of some others? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite> ...  a note on the typeface at the back of the book ... </cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a \"Colophon\": <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/78642\">When did people start
    to name their typeface in the colophon?</a> and thread reference therein."
  created: '2011-11-11 13:04:10'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Okay, I\u2019ll grant you that last one (the stray word at the bottom); but
    what makes the others \u201Cbygone\u201D? \r\n\r\nEndpapers, colophons, and vignettes
    aren\u2019t extinct."
  created: '2011-11-11 13:30:06'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Ok, ok\u2026 'bygone's' the wrong word; traditional is perhaps a better term.
    \r\n\r\nAnyway, whilst badly phrased (sorry), hopefully you get the jist? \r\n\r\nI
    guess another one I can think of is the use of a pilcrow rather than a paragraph
    space. "
  created: '2011-11-11 14:44:47'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: 'The headbands and footbands at the top and bottom of the spine of a casebound
    book. They are a vestige of the threads used when books were hand-sewn. Like the
    sleeve buttons on men''s suit jackets, they are a decorative artifact of something
    that used to be functional. '
  created: '2011-11-11 15:04:42'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Brilliant, yes, I'll add head bands (and ribbons) to the list. \r\n\r\nAny
    typographic ideas? "
  created: '2011-11-11 15:10:11'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "I think there's a lot less use than there used to be, of decorated rules
    or fleurons to separate sections, or just to fill up a small white gap at the
    end of a page.\r\n\r\n\r\n(As an aside: one of the academic journals I work on,
    used to start every article with a drop cap in a six-line decorated border, and
    have a decorated rule separating run-on book reviews. Up until 2004. I'm kinda
    sad that it doesn't do that any more...)"
  created: '2011-11-11 15:29:23'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "There's some interesting stuff mentioned in the [[http://www.bookdesign.be/main.aspx?c=.BOOKDESIGN&n=96145|final
    programme]] of a conference that took place in September.\r\n\r\nThe majority
    of the papers delivered on Thursday 29 September can be watched on Youtube:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/user/rvpeee#grid/user/5A6D4C45B2BF2F4D\r\n\r\n<cite>Book
    Design from the Middle Ages to the Future: Traditions & Evolutions\r\nThe objective
    of this international congress is to explore traditions and innovations in book
    design and typography from the manuscript era to the age of the electronic book.
    The congress explicitly wants to focus on these elements of book design that have
    faded out, have survived or that evolved over a long period of time...</cite>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 16:29:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Extra spacing between sentences, killed by kerning.\r\nHowever, I wouldn\u2019t
    call that a quirk, as it served a purpose.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nReference symbols
    have been largely replaced by numbers.\r\nAgain, I wouldn\u2019t call them a quirk\u2014they
    were a practical way for printers to make reference calls by means of characters
    doing double duty\u2014without recourse to a special sort of superior figures
    or packing a smaller size figure.\r\n\r\nSimilarly:\r\n\r\nRoman figures in italic
    text.\r\nOld-style figures in all small caps.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI would say that
    \u201Cdumb\u201D quotes and faux italic/bold have become (not so nice) old-fashioned
    quirks, relics of the early days of DTP.\r\nPerhaps they will acquire a quaint
    cachet in time.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nA new quirk is how \u201Csmart\u201D layout apps
    abbreviate numbers incorrectly, with a single left quote mark.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 18:47:23'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Various degrees of oldness and extinctness:\r\n\r\nRunning heads that were
    bigger than the main text. Never see that anymore.\r\n\r\nAlso, signature numbers
    printed at the bottom of the first page of a signature.\r\n\r\nUse of dot leaders
    rather than solid rules for blanks (in tables, etc.)\r\n\r\nTriangulated headings
    and chapter ends.\r\n\r\nText set solid.\r\n\r\nTurnover lines brought up or down,
    and set flush right with one left parenthesis or bracket (still see this sometimes)\r\n\r\n\"Block
    quotes\" with quote marks down the whole lefthand side\r\n\r\nItalics for all
    names\r\n\r\nTo-morrow, r\xF4le, co-operate or co\xF6perate, etc.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    word at the bottom of the page is called a catchword: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catchword"
  created: '2011-11-11 19:56:08'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Good ones. \r\nExtra space inside punctuation marks such as quotes, exclamation
    and question marks.\r\nVery widely spaced dot leaders in TOCs."
  created: '2011-11-11 22:46:29'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Em dashes instead of ellipsis.
  created: '2011-11-11 23:01:20'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: Pilcrows in place of paragraph breaks, daggers, roman numerals in appendices.
    Em space between a dropcap and the first line. Letter-spaced words with intact
    ligatures in fraktur.
  created: '2011-11-11 23:48:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: End-of-chapter line lengths that are centered and decrease in length down
    in a triangle shape. Is there a name for that?
  created: '2011-11-12 00:17:44'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "That's what I meant by \"triangulated chapter endings.\" Not sure if there's
    a better term.\r\n\r\nAlso, and still from wildly different periods:\r\n\r\nDouble-em
    dashes for interruptions: \"But I think\u2014\u2014\"\r\n\r\nAnd for anonymity:
    Mr. K\u2014\u2014 (still see this sometimes)\r\n\r\nPeriods after headings\r\n\r\nDouble
    space between sentences\r\n\r\nCent sign, \"per\" sign\r\n\r\nPointing printer's
    fingers (\"index\")\r\n\r\n&c.\r\n\r\nRoman caps with italic lc\r\n\r\nTables
    where the vertical rules stop to let the horizontal ones through, or vice versa\r\n\r\nOf
    course, if you're in England, lots of current American punctuation looks like
    a charming old fashioned idiosyncrasy: Mr. (instead of British Mr), 1,000 (instead
    of British 1 000 or 1000), etc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-12 02:30:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Color Plates/Tip Ins
  created: '2011-11-12 02:32:21'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: One of my beefs is that, often, in a well-produced non-fiction book, where
    there's an index there will not be a typeface note.
  created: '2011-11-12 08:09:23'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nSome great responses! Thanks everyone. \r\n\r\nTwo bits that intrigue
    me: \r\n\r\n'Turnover lines brought up or down, and set flush right with one left
    parenthesis or bracket (still see this sometimes)' \u2013 I can't imagine what
    this looks like\u2026 can you explain? \r\n\r\n'Color Plates/Tip Ins' \u2013 what
    are these?"
  created: '2011-11-17 10:13:45'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "'turnover lines brought up or down...'\r\nI used to see this in old dictionaries
    a lot, to save space. Something like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Document1_4345.jpg]\r\n...where
    there's three-quarters of a line of empty space after the entry for \"turnout...\",
    while the entry for \"turnpike...\" only wraps to a second line by a short distance,
    so they turn it <em>up</em> (and right-align it) instead of down, and indicate
    it with a bracket.\r\n\r\n'Color plates/tip ins': a separate signature of better-quality
    paper, specifically for taking color illustrations, all grouped together."
  created: '2011-11-17 10:40:55'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > 'Color plates/tip ins': a separate signature of better-quality paper,
    specifically for taking color illustrations, all grouped together.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that describes color plates \u2014 a separate signature of color printing gathered
    and bound together as a section in an otherwise one-color book (or sometimes two-color:
    I\u2019ve done that before). \r\n\r\n\u201CTip-in\u201D usually refers to a color
    illustration/photo that has been printed by a separate process and then affixed
    onto a blank page set aside for the purpose in an otherwise one-color book.\r\n\r\nColor
    plates are still common in certain genres. Tip-ins, however, require hand work
    and so are almost never seen these days."
  created: '2011-11-17 13:36:50'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Turnover lines:\r\n\r\nYes, that's exactly what I meant. Never seen it in
    a dictionary, but you still see it (rarely) in poetry and plays. Here, from the
    very first edition of A Mid\u017Fomer nights Dreame:\r\n\r\nhttp://internetshakespeare.uvic.ca/media/facsimile/F1s/MNDF1s/MNDF1_0170s.jpg\r\n\r\nOn
    the upper right, \"bryer\" (briar) is turned over this way.\r\n\r\nIt's maybe
    more interesting to note, however, when they don't do it.\r\n\r\nOoh, this reminds
    me of another quirk: the long S."
  created: '2011-11-17 23:37:44'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Is it mis-sing or miss-ing?
  created: '2011-11-18 00:24:01'
- author:
    name: Dick Wynne
    picture: 117756
  body: Coloured or gold tops (to the pages). I would like to tip in, on some projects,
    but cannot find sufficiently thin quality inkjet paper. Too many tip-ins and the
    book won't close well and/or the binding will get strained, I imagine. Unless
    you go to the trouble of dummy pages where the tip-ins will go, which you then
    razor out. Did they ever do this back in the day? And then what about the page
    nos? Some scope for error.
  created: '2011-12-19 11:39:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tissue paper to protect \u201Cplates\u201D.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Malfilatre_4253.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-19 23:19:15'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Tip-ins, however, require hand work and \r\n> so are almost never seen
    these days.\r\n\r\nAn unusual example that comes to mind is the 1997 coffee-table
    book \"From Myst to Riven\" (about the making of those computers games). The central
    graphic on the cover was glued in place after the cover was printed, so they could
    offer your choice of 5 different cover images.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/book-covers_6046.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-20 01:16:07'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Signatures bound with uncut pages, requiring the use of a \"book knife\"
    (?) \u2014 I feel like there's another term for the specific tool you use to cut
    them apart, but can't think of it right now. Anyone want to chime in?"
  created: '2011-12-20 06:07:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Paper knife.
  created: '2011-12-20 06:39:03'
- author:
    name: Dick Wynne
    picture: 117756
  body: A blind-blocked recess on the cover where a printed design or photo etc can
    be affixed, somewhat protected from scuffing.
  created: '2011-12-21 12:01:33'
- author:
    name: Dick Wynne
    picture: 117756
  body: Widow / orphan control, to the extent of shortening the pages of a spread
    by 1 (which I do quite often), even 2 (which I haven't yet but wouldn't rule it
    out) lines, where necessary. (In fact, any W/O control at all would be nice in
    many modern trade books, it  is fast becoming 'quaint').
  created: '2011-12-21 12:48:08'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Hm. Personally, I never do widow/orphan control for normal prose as I think
    it already looks \u2026 not so much quaint as inconsistent. I think pages lengths
    bobbing up and down is uglier than single-line paragraphs. I do control in poetry,
    though, and to avoid very obvious blemishes like a subhead at the bottom of a
    page with one line after it, or a two-line page at the end of a chapter."
  created: '2011-12-21 17:35:14'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: A half title <em>and</em> a bastard title.
  created: '2011-12-22 21:36:30'
- author:
    name: Dick Wynne
    picture: 117756
  body: "\"A half title and a bastard title.\"\r\n\r\nAren't these one and the same
    thing?\r\n\r\nI do like the theatrical sense of anticipation created by, say,
    dark coloured endpapers --> half-title --> title page on first encountering a
    book. I gather the half-title originated as a way to identify and protect the
    book in the bindery, is this right?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 11:15:02'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: This is how the title page itself originated.
  created: '2011-12-24 06:48:43'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: "Occasionally you get a superfluity of title pages - I had a book recently
    with 4 or 5 successive title pages -  'enough already'.\r\n\r\nExcept for the
    artisan presses, and aside from electronic books, the niceties of book production
    seem to have pretty much gone by the board. It's apparent that pennies are pinched
    in the matter of editing and proofreading: a number of books are going straight
    to press from the author's computer without further ado. Mistakes in grammar,
    word usage, etc., even turn up in books with respected authors and publishers.
    \r\n\r\nAlas."
  created: '2011-12-24 19:11:17'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: 'Half-way through Theodore Low de Vinne''s <em>Treatise on Titlepages.</em>
    Amusing: lots of bygone niceties/quirks/straightup-insanity to choose from.'
  created: '2012-01-06 05:19:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@Nick &ndash; Paper knife, eh? Well, I&rsquo;m glad I only need one for envelopes
    now.'
  created: '2012-01-06 16:17:50'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@Dick Wynne: To compensate for the added thickness of multiple tip ins you
    would use strips of paper, bound with the full pages, to provide for some room.
    This way a tip in on every single full page is feasible.\r\n\r\nMy fave o-f quirk:
    lots of ribbon markers in lots of colours."
  created: '2012-01-06 16:18:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You want old-fashioned? Buckles!  :-)\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/78kou3w\r\n\r\n>
    Extra spacing between sentences, killed by kerning.\r\n> However, I wouldn\u2019t
    call that a quirk, as it served a purpose.\r\n\r\nNot exactly. First proper spacing
    between sentences was\r\nkilled by monospaced fonts (a mechanical compromise\r\nin
    typewriters) which have spacing so loose that the single\r\nspace after a period
    gets lost, so you put two spaces. Then\r\ndesktop publishing killed (or demoted
    99%) monospaced\r\nfonts, but some people stayed dead inside and they still\r\nuse
    two spaces.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 18:13:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The kerning-killed-double-spacing theory:\r\n\r\nWithout kerning, many words
    that begin sentences (in mixed case, of course) have a large gap between the capital
    and the lowercase letter immediately after. The culprits are most notably T, V,
    W and Y followed by a vowel. Double spacing avoided the effect of said capitals
    appearing to be evenly isolated between the end of the previous sentence and the
    rest of their word.\r\n\r\nTypewriters had nothing to do with it, as the practice
    was widespread before their invention.\r\n\r\nThe demise of double spacing began
    with Linotype\u2019s two letter logotypes for the problem capital-vowel combinations."
  created: '2012-02-13 18:35:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the practice was widespread before their invention.\r\n\r\nReference?\r\nNote
    BTW that in metal composition you don't \"double\"\r\na space after a period -
    you just choose a spacing sort of\r\na functional width.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 18:45:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Some threads on double spacing:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/3466\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/63549\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/56108"
  created: '2012-02-13 19:17:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Could you point to a specific post?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 20:31:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Some Dickens, from the original 1853 publication. (Typewriters introduced
    in the 1870s.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bleak_6523.jpg]\r\nPerhaps
    more so than the kerning issue, the variation in justification accounts for extra
    sentence spacing\u2014otherwise sentence spacing in a tight line would be way
    less than word spacing in an open line, which gives the wrong hierarchical impression
    of how text is organized into paragraph/sentence/words.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 20:57:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's clearly a justification trick.\r\nAnything more convincing?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 22:03:09'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "How many do you have to see to believe it? This is a link to a facsimile
    edition of Pride and Prejudice, showing the same feature. (Use the look inside
    to look at interior pages).\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0486440915/104-0622893-0611104#reader_0486440915\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 15:23:48'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>That's clearly a justification trick.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt may well be.
    And at the same time it could as well be the origin of the \"double space after
    the period\" habit used with typewriter."
  created: '2012-02-14 15:38:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How many do you have to see to believe it?\r\n\r\nI can't nail down a number*
    but how about we\r\nstart with just one (that's not full-justified).\r\n\r\n*
    I think it does require a few independent\r\nprecedents to qualify as a trend/influence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 18:20:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>how about we start with just one (that's not full-justified).</em>\r\n\r\nSee
    the second line of the Bleak House image above."
  created: '2012-02-14 18:34:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, I see that. That's even way more than the equivalent\r\nof two spaces,
    plus \"De\" isn't loose at all. I wonder what\r\nthey were thinking, since something
    like the \"Ve\" (middle\r\nof 8th line) seems too \"innocent\" to trigger an across-the-\r\nboard
    massive-space-after-periods strategy. I wonder if\r\nin this particular case the
    profusion of quotes (which are\r\nvery loose there) was the main trigger instead.\r\n\r\nFWIW
    I'm willing to change my view, but I have a feeling\r\nthe solid logic of the
    typewriter version might be being\r\nrejected by typesetters because they feel
    embarrassed?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 18:56:44'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "All paragraphs indented, including the first, is still the norm in some places.\r\n\r\nWas
    it ever common to set poems and poetry within frames? Coloured frames?"
  created: '2012-02-14 20:10:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>I wonder if\r\nin this particular case the profusion of quotes
    (which are\r\nvery loose there) was the main trigger instead.</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\nNo, a quick look at three <1870 samples from Google Books suggests it was
    general practice: 3-for-3 have \"double\" spaces between sentences.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/herodotus1831_6231.png]\r\n1824\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/storybook1840_6213.png]\r\n1840\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cervantes_4181.png]\r\n1858"
  created: '2012-02-14 20:28:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The reservation I have is the justification. Sure, if you're\r\ngoing to
    insert extra spaces to justify a line, the first place\r\nto do it is after a
    period. This has nothing to do with kerning.\r\n\r\nThere can be more than one
    reason to put extra space after a\r\nperiod, and the looseness of fixed-width
    fonts could have been\r\none of the more compelling ones.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 20:37:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the looseness of fixed-width fonts could have been one of the more
    compelling ones.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree, however, that was not always the case.\r\nIn
    the early days printers would often omit space after a period or comma, which
    is not without its own logic.\r\nSo when and where did the practice begin?"
  created: '2012-02-14 21:02:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that was not always the case.\r\n\r\nClearly that's true. But I think the
    kerning fallout\r\nyou suggested was even less often the case (if ever).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 22:06:41'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I for one would hesitate to call these \u2018double\u2019 spaces \u2014 it\u2019s
    the old story about ems and ens. These spaces are ems, I think and maybe a shortcut
    used by typesetters that were paid by the line or page (a practice not uncommon).\r\n\r\n[Explanation:
    if one used an em for a space after a full stop, that would be one wordspace less
    to justify (eg the distribution of the rest space in a line over all wordspaces)
    \u2014 it would look okay-ish & be a bit quicker to do.]"
  created: '2012-02-14 22:14:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In the Monotype machine, Tolbert Lanston initially implemented a justification
    system that applied even spacing between all characters. However, nobody liked
    it and it was never put into production, they were happier with the familiar practice
    of justifying by adding to word spacing. It seems they were comfortable with the
    integrity and consistency of words in fixed-width fonts, and not bothered by wild
    variation in word spacing.\r\n\r\nHowever, when Quark XPress launched with justification-by-character
    spacing as default, there was no comment. By that time it seems that variability
    of letterspace and evenness of overall \u201Cfit\u201D, as effected by kerning,
    was preferred.\r\n\r\nA somewhat different kerning effect than I had originally
    proposed (although I still think that plays a part). As Hrant says, it\u2019s
    something to do with \u201Cthe looseness of fixed width fonts\u201D, but I would
    modify that to \u201Copenness\u201D or \u201Cspaceyness\u201D, because of the
    consistency of glyph fitting, which was precise and very tight in many combinations.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 23:45:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It seems they were comfortable with the integrity\r\n> and consistency
    of words in fixed-width fonts\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure the Monotype didn't use fixed-width
    fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-15 01:47:30'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Reckon the 'silk' ribbon bookmark sewn to the spine qualifies as a nice quirk.
  created: '2012-02-19 01:58:35'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: Fore-edge painting.
  created: '2012-02-22 23:43:07'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Setting decimal fractions with denominator or subscript figures.
  created: '2012-04-29 01:46:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "A brand new book with a cover tip-in:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eymundsson.is/nanar/?productid=b6ae97f4-3c8a-49a7-a012-8bdfc1c80aab"
  created: '2012-12-28 14:27:18'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: I did a book with a tipped-in frontispiece earlier this year. The book is
    about intaglio printing, and the author wanted an actual intaglio print in there
    somewhere.
  created: '2012-12-28 17:58:36'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: In case this still interests someone, M.H. Weseen's <cite>Dictionary of American
    Slang</cite> from 1934 has many ragged-right lines with wide spaces between sentences.
    Spaced-off semicolons, too.
  created: '2014-05-15 21:16:59'
- author:
    name: _savage
    picture: 127156
  body: "Use of asterisms, perhaps?\r\n\r\nMy grandparents used to have heaps of books
    printed in Fraktur types on thick yellowed paper, often times with hand-sketched
    illustrations; I loved those. (Still have them at home.)"
  created: '2014-05-20 22:12:37'
date: '2011-11-11 12:01:32'
node_type: forum
title: Nice old-fashioned quirks in Book Design

---
