---
author:
  name: natenine
  picture: 115350
body: "Hi, I'm working on very complete font family that will be released for free.
  It has 9 weights, all with true italics, a lot of opentype features and over 700
  glyphs. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/5_4010.gif]\r\nNow I'm looking for
  funding through kickstarter. If you can help me on this project by being a backer
  or sharing this project with your friends I would be very grateful.\r\nhttp://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1010856090/the-exo-typeface-family
  \r\nThank you very much!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Edit: -- Nevermind --'
  created: '2011-11-15 21:48:25'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: I'm dead broke right now -- otherwise I'd help fund your project, but the
    whole "only gets funded at all if at least $7500 is donated" aspect worries me
    as well. What happens if the fund doesn't reach $7500? Do you just not release
    the font? If I get a bit of spending money, I'd love to help, but only if I know
    that it will actually help...
  created: '2011-11-19 22:31:43'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Font that <strong>requires</strong> money payment is called \"commercial\".\r\nFont
    that <strong>requires</strong> money donations is called \"free\".\r\nThat's new."
  created: '2011-11-20 14:56:15'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: "To answer the previous question (from mjkerpan), Kickstarter accepts pledges
    through Amazon payments, but the money isn't actually collected until the goal
    is reached in a set period of time. If the targeted donation amount is not reached
    by the pre-determined deadline, the project is terminated and no one pays.\r\n\r\nKickstarter
    helps collect donations to fund creative projects: http://www.kickstarter.com/.\r\n\r\n~
    Keith."
  created: '2011-11-20 18:08:13'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "Hey, thanks for the replies. \r\n\r\nFirst, If you cannot give, I totally
    understand, you can however share the project through facebook, twitter, blog,
    if you want to help the project. \r\n\r\nSecondly, If the font is not funded (I
    hope it will be funded), All the money pledged is returned to the backers. So
    you never lose. \r\n\r\nLastly, This font is intended to be a free font, nobody
    will need to make a donation or pay to use the font after its released. That does
    not mean I should not receive some money to keep investing in typography and pay
    my bills . Some free fonts are commissioned, this one of that kind, just a different
    type of commission. \r\n\r\nIf you guys can support, even if by just sharing I
    will be very very grateful. "
  created: '2011-11-20 19:53:25'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "I don't like this wording at all, because free fonts are truly free. They
    are fueled by altruism. League Gothic, Diavlo, Bello... In this very forum - Novocento,
    Terminal, Quicksand etc.\r\nThe sum you're asking is huge even for commercial
    bestsellers, therefore all this automatically smells of hypocrisy."
  created: '2011-11-21 09:07:32'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "Hi Minerva, \r\nThe fonts that you've mentioned are not close to what Exo
    will offer (not talking about quality or beauty). Only Novocento is a big font
    family, but if you see carefully, only some weights are free, others you have
    to pay. The designer of Diavlo for instance have a lot of paid fonts, like Museo,
    Calluna and others. \r\n\r\nI would love to live in a world where everything was
    just pure altruism, but my internet, energy, water provider is not altruistic
    at all! =D\r\n\r\nExo is a font family of 18 files, each one with a lot of opentype
    features. What I am asking is some generosity in return, only the people who want
    and can should contribute. Because some people want to help but they don't have
    that much money, but some persons do an they contribute for others that don't
    have money, so everybody will use the font. That is very altruistic. \r\n\r\nLately,
    the ammount I'm asking for funding this project is low (not huge at all), it is
    not a payment, it is just a help for me to keep working on type, and eventually
    have some money after a lot of months working hard without any. And its all that
    I am asking, after that Exo will be free forever, for every person. \r\n\r\nI
    hope you understand\r\n "
  created: '2011-11-21 11:15:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Exo and Neo look awfully similar.
  created: '2011-11-21 11:33:03'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Hi Natanael,\r\nJust backed your project.\r\nI hope it get's fully funded!\r\n\r\nBest
    of lucks,\r\nPablo"
  created: '2011-11-21 13:38:46'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "Hi frode frank, I disagree with you. \r\nExo is a totally original design
    \r\nPlease evaluate for yourself:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/test_6391.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    font might have a similar feeling, it is futuristic, sans serif with a technological
    look but a lot of other fonts have this feeling too, Akko, Dax, Dobra, and others.
    Actually it would be too bad if we only had one font family for each \"feeling\".
    \r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-21 14:19:15'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: Thank you very much for your support Pablo!
  created: '2011-11-21 14:20:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'I think every genre, however narrow, has room for more than one design. Comparing
    the two I still think it''s uncomfortably similar. I don''t know exactly how Exo
    came to be, but looking at these samples it''s painfully obvious that someone
    else has done what you are trying to much better already. So, the question is:
    What is your design adding, beside being free?'
  created: '2011-11-21 15:55:32'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@frank\r\n\r\nIf it wouldn't free I doubt any one will complain about it
    being \"too similar\" (whatever that means!), the prevailing typophile hypocrisy
    against any thing that has the f word!"
  created: '2011-11-21 17:27:32'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "@Frank\r\nExo started from scratch at my typography classes at university,
    at that time I didn't even knew about Neo Sans. So its a totally unique design,
    I can show you early stages of the design. \r\n\r\nI must agree that Neo Sans
    might look better, it was made by and excellent designer, but it is different
    from Exo. I think there is plenty of room for new fonts, you need constantly new
    designs, so i think there is a lot of room for Exo. And about your criterion of
    \"uncomfortably similar\" what do you think of theses typefaces Univers, Frutiger,
    Helvetica, Akzidenz Grotesk, Din, Arial, and sooo on. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-21 18:08:18'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: Funding the project is strictly optional. So fund it. Or don't. Either way,
    if the funding goal is met within the specified timeline and the font family is
    completed, the world -- including those who do not offer their support -- can
    download it at no cost (in other words, free). Where is the hypocrisy?
  created: '2011-11-21 18:15:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>I must agree that Neo Sans might look better ...</em>\r\n\r\nCompare
    the internal counterspaces. Neo Sans is better balanced. \r\n\r\n<em>... what
    do you think of theses typefaces Univers, Frutiger, Helvetica, Akzidenz Grotesk,
    Din, Arial, and sooo on.</em>\r\n\r\nI think Frutiger is a humanist, and far from
    all the others mentioned.\r\n\r\nAkzidenz Grotesk, Helvetica and Arial have more
    in common, but where Helvetica is cold and calculated AG is quirky and lively
    and spaced entirely different. Arial is closer related to Monotype Grotesque than
    any of these, but it has been shoe-horned into Helvetica's metrics for marketing
    reasons.\r\n\r\nDIN is pure geometry plus straight sides.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-21 18:25:50'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>it wouldn't free I doubt any one will complain about it being \"too similar\"
    (whatever that means!), the prevailing typophile hypocrisy against any thing that
    has the f word!</em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary. Free fonts aren't really controversial
    to me, just boring. "
  created: '2011-11-21 18:39:55'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: "Then why comment on something so unworthy of your time?\r\n\r\nNeo Sans is
    a commercial font family that retails for nearly $600 USD. Exo Sans (if it ever
    comes to fruition) will be free. Comparing a free font (boring as it may be) to
    a commercial font is a stretch."
  created: '2011-11-21 18:51:33'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "@ Frank \r\nI didn't ask you the differences I asked you to use the same
    criterion you used comparing Exo/Neo on those fonts, which you didn't.\r\n\r\nYou
    showed that you use two criterion on judging fonts. There are the paid ones which
    are good, original and totally different from each other by default, and the free
    ones which are boring and copies by default.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-11-21 19:06:29'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@natenine\r\nFree fonts are boring because they are used to death (for the
    same effect) by lazy designers, something that also happens with very trendy commercial
    fonts. This is my subjective opinion.\r\n\r\nAs for my comparison of the fonts
    you listed, I have no idea what you mean. What criterion did I compare Exo/Neo
    by that I didn't apply to the others?\r\n\r\n@KCH\r\nI comment because I want
    people to make better fonts, not worse."
  created: '2011-11-21 19:21:52'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: "@Frank\r\nSure. I applaud your commitment to improved font quality. But I'm
    not sure how the comment \"free fonts aren't really controversial, just boring\"
    helps achieve that goal. Some of the biggest font retailers introduce dozens of
    fonts a week that I wouldn't download if they were free. Conversely, I've come
    across some free fonts that are quite useful and beautiful. Each case is unique."
  created: '2011-11-21 19:51:11'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "@Frank\r\nI agree with you, that is why we constantly need new designs. \r\n\r\nAs
    far as I understood, you said Exo/Neo were too similar, but for helvetica, univers,
    akzidenz, and even others, that didn't seem a problem to you, when they are much
    closer to each other than Exo to Neo.\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-21 19:59:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>Some of the biggest font retailers introduce dozens of fonts a week that
    I wouldn't download if they were free. Conversely, I've come across some free
    fonts that are quite useful and beautiful. Each case is unique.< /em>\r\n\r\nTrue
    that, and if you allow me to steer this back on topic my question still stands:
    What is [your] design adding, beside being free? Commerical type designers need
    to ask themselves the same question."
  created: '2011-11-21 20:01:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "No, I don't think Univers is particulary close to Helvetica, other than both
    being (relatively) monoline (neo) grotesques. Neither of them reference each other
    but an older established genre and they both answer the ideals of modernism, with
    very different results. The controversy over Arial, on the other hand, is a well
    versed theme.\r\n\r\nI mean, all Asians look the same don't they?"
  created: '2011-11-21 20:16:21'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "Frode I accept what you said about Univers and Helvetica, I'm just saying
    that you should use the same reasoning to evaluate Exo and Neo. They might answer
    the same \"futuristic-technological\" concept but in different ways...\r\nThe
    only consistent critic that I received so far has to do with the lowercase \"g\"
    which I will change before the release of the font. For the rest the font as an
    overall different look, the glyphs are different as well. How can the fonts look
    the same? "
  created: '2011-11-21 20:31:18'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "@Frode: \r\nI remember reading somewhere that Univers was developed to compete
    against the growing popularity and market takeover of Helvetica, but that's topic
    of another full thread: http://typophile.com/node/33301"
  created: '2011-11-21 20:37:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The same reasoning applied to Exo and Neo: Exo looks like it copied the signature
    shapes of Neo, nudged a few things here and there (tapers on horisontals, amputated
    y) and used these as the basis for a new font. I'm not saying that is the case,
    but there sure is no added value here.\r\n\r\nThe hnmur shapes are devoid of optical
    compensations and r is much too wide, tails of t/l are sloppy, the inner space
    of letters like L, c and v are off by a mile and others again (w) totally off
    balance. The weight of diagonals are very problematic, and so are the horisontal
    parts in rounds. Not to mention the M which doesn't belong here at all. I could
    go on and on. "
  created: '2011-11-21 21:08:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Pablo: To compete, you need to offer something else (and hopefully something
    better) than your competitor.'
  created: '2011-11-21 21:16:45'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "As I said, I might agree that Neo is better, I don't intend to be better
    than a very experienced designer, as I am a starter. \r\nWe are in a constant
    evolving process, and the next attempt is always better than the previous one.
    I don't really want to compete I want to add alternatives. Just because some forms
    might resemble other fonts, that is far from making them copies. "
  created: '2011-11-21 21:58:35'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: That is pure trolling, I'd say.
  created: '2011-11-21 22:22:01'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: I can't believe the people bashing the OP here... While some of the criticism
    is at least understandable (it DOES look a little like Neo, though not as much
    as certain people seem to think) other criticism seems to stem more from a "you
    shouldn't be asking for financial help to make a free font" POV which seems a
    bit weird...
  created: '2011-11-21 23:57:16'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "I'm appearing to you all now. Did you think I died? I'm not a ghost. I'm
    live. I kept logged out and kept reading many of your comments and I laughed at
    you all. When I read, I thought myself: \"Yes, I was very right, the typodesigners
    are arrogant, hypocrite, smugs, douchebagg and Mac users, and think they are the
    best and they love accusing the other of copying the fonts of other. They think
    they are the ones that never copied of anyone. Then I hate the typodesigners and
    ready.\"\r\n\r\nI come to troll and humiliate some of you, principally and specially
    Frode. \r\n\r\nDear Frod and typodesigners,\r\n\r\nWhy did you complain too much
    the other copied the fonts of other? Did you never copied the fonts of other,
    udring every your life? \r\nWhy did you complement too much the fonts Frutiger,
    Helvetica and Akzidenz Grotesk if they were copied from Arial?\r\nWhy did you
    complement too much the fonts Akko and Univers if they were copied from Neo Sans?\r\n\r\nCongratulations
    for your hypocrisy!\r\n\r\nYou all aren't anything saint! You all have every copied
    something from somebody! There's no use to lie to us. \r\nDo you know why did
    you say that?\r\n\r\nBecause you are arrogant, smug and douchebagg. \r\n\r\nSome
    of you are against the free and libre fonts, anti-GPL and anti-open source. One
    guy that I insulted, is against every free and open source font, the which you
    defended and you called me a troller. He seemed to be a Mac user and wants every
    poor to buy the expensive fonts. It made I being alert. I'm not blind or silly.
    I know who you are really. \r\n\r\nI'm sure you all are in favour of SOPA, PIPA
    and ACTA. \r\n"
  created: '2012-01-28 19:13:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Sigh.
  created: '2012-01-28 19:44:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, I'm not a Mac user - take that back!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-28 19:58:01'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: typodesigner ... I like that new word.
  created: '2012-01-28 20:05:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Anybody who hasn't seen the great effect of including intentional\r\nmistakes
    when copywriting* in order to avoid an editor making\r\nregrettable changes to
    the text (because they have to prove their\r\nworth too) really needs to learn
    the skill of typodesign.\r\n\r\n* Please note the \"w\" and absence of \"gh\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-28 20:11:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "You can't just say \xABtypodesigner\xBB. Apply the craft! If you believe
    in the profession, at least make it a typodesginer or a typodesinger."
  created: '2012-01-28 20:14:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Touch\xE8.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-28 20:23:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'm glad I'm not a typodesignwr, like y'all!
  created: '2012-01-28 20:33:47'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Oh, foo... Is that whinging fluffbunny out of its bolthole and back to giving
    us FOSSphiles a bad name?
  created: '2012-01-28 20:43:21'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Kevintheophile might very well be a troll, but what he said is not totally
    void of truth...
  created: '2012-01-28 21:46:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nothing is totally void of truth.\r\n\r\nBut the signal-to-noise ratio has
    to be\r\nhigh enough to engage meaningful debate.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-28 22:03:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Every typeface owes something to older designs. There\u2019s no way around
    that, and I certainly don\u2019t think that\u2019s a bad thing. Think of the concept
    of an <em>homage,</em> or a <em>cover song.</em> At which point this becomes uncomfortable
    though\u2014that depends on a lot of factors.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m personally a big
    fan of playing with open cards. Wish every type designer would mention their sources."
  created: '2012-01-29 01:15:04'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "To be honest I think the comparison with Neo Sans is fair but that doesn't
    make Exo Sans irrelevant. I think there is plenty of room for a typeface like
    this. However, if you're going to be cocky about its release and funding I would
    really make sure there are no imperfections. For example, the 'm' is the width
    of 2 n's which is too wide and the W/w look stylistically out of place (a 'W'
    as in Neo Sans would fit the style of your typeface better).\r\n\r\nBut why would
    you want to offer this typeface for free anyway? I think the style is so specific
    that the general designer won't have any use for this. I would leave it up to
    demand and ask a price for it. Anyway, I see the funding target has been accomplished
    so my point is contextually superseded."
  created: '2012-02-02 03:45:21'
- author:
    name: Psihata
  body: "I wouldn't pay too much attention to haters like Frode since the font is
    quite good and as far as I'm concerned, a big font family is always handy for
    any designer.\r\n\r\nThe thing which prevents me from contributing to your kick
    starter project is the fact that I come from a country which uses the Cyrillic
    alphabet. Hence I (as well as Russian, Belorussian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Serbian
    and Macedonian designers) would find your font family  much more useful if it
    included Cyrillic glyphs. "
  created: '2012-02-07 15:01:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's a difference between hater and picky.\r\nThose who realize they can't
    spend the time\r\nmaking a quality product for free should not\r\nmischaracterize
    people just so they and their\r\nilk feel better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-07 16:34:52'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "Exo have been [[http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1010856090/the-exo-typeface-family/posts|released]]
    (though it\u2019s [[http://www.ndiscovered.com/index.php/exo-font-family|website]]
    is down now, one can still get it from Google Web Fonts [[http://code.google.com/p/googlefontdirectory/source/browse/exo|repository]])."
  created: '2012-02-07 16:42:30'
- author:
    name: natenine
    picture: 115350
  body: "The website is now running again. It was overloaded. \r\nFeel free to download
    the font files [[http://www.ndiscovered.com/index.php/exo-font-family|here]]"
  created: '2012-02-07 20:34:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW:\r\n> all Asians look the same don't they?\r\n\r\nhttp://alllooksame.com/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-07 20:41:54'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Yes, I'm a troller. \r\n\r\n@frod \r\n\r\n<em>I'm glad I'm not a typodesignwr,
    like y'all!</em>\r\n\r\nOf course you're a typodesigner. Your site tells you design
    the typefaces.\r\n\r\nDon't try to mistake us.\r\n\r\nI want to troll again, but
    preferbly Frod because of his fonts\r\n\r\nWhen Frod accused falsily Natanel of
    copying the font Neo Sans, I would like to accuse Frod of copying 4 fonts to his
    very modified font Aften:\r\nhttp://www.frodehelland.com/?page=aften\r\n\r\n1)
    Droid Sans Mono: http://www.google.com/webfonts/specimen/Droid+Sans+Mono\r\n2)
    Liberation Mono: http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Liberation-Mono\r\n3) Inconsolata:
    http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Inconsolata\r\n4) Cousine: http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/cousine\r\n\r\nFrod
    copied each some letters from these fonts to his font Aften. \r\nFrod thinks he's
    always right and the best, and he's the one who never copied.\r\n\r\nFrod is a
    Macf** douchebaggy and stuck-up rich gentleman viking. It's why he's a hater.
    At his site, he put his screenshots of his jobs with the Mac OS X's tollbars and
    windows, only for showing off that he owns a Mac and is the best than the other.
    Yes, a stuck-up and snooty rich gentleman. And a Linux, GPL and freedom hater.
    Poor of Norway, a country of stuck-up rich gentlemen and ladies vikings, suffered
    a massacre of young people by an ultra-right Neo-Nazi terrorist. \r\n\r\nI will
    never pay the fonts for a Macf** stuck-up rich gentleman like Frod. I prefer paying
    the fonts for Natanel and the humble typodesigners. "
  created: '2012-02-09 19:50:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, I'm glad you cleared that up.\r\nFor a moment I thought you might have
    a frontal cortex.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 20:08:18'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Copied is a harsh term. I\u2019d rather say slightly <em>too</em> inspired
    by. Like how my first sketches for Aften looked a lot like Kris\u2019 National,
    but eventually found it\u2019s own tone :) Young and inspired. As for the rest
    of this: this really made my day!"
  created: '2012-02-09 20:40:05'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Spam, anyone?
  created: '2012-03-17 22:09:19'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Exactly what we were looking for...
  created: '2012-03-26 02:42:08'
date: '2011-11-15 21:00:08'
node_type: forum
title: The Exo Font Family - Free Font Release

---
