---
author:
  name: noblematt
  picture: 123700
body: "I've been doing a hell a lot of research on how web typefaces work and render
  to the point where my boss now believe us as a graphics agency are the most knowledgeable
  people in London if not the UK.\r\n\r\n(I'll give you a hint, there are very few
  web typefaces that truly are web fonts.)\r\n\r\nAnyway I've been testing hand hinted
  typefaces at the sizes we use in the coded website (13pt and 15pt) and even these
  hand hinted typefaces have rendering issues at this size. However if I render them
  at say 14pt they seem to improve.\r\n\r\nCan anyone (possibly someone who hints
  fonts for a living) rationalise this for me? Is there some reason im not seeing
  that could explain why fonts seem to render better in even numbers over odd numbers?\r\n\r\nMatt
  Noble\r\nScheybeler+company"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Hand hinted? What does it mean in this case? '
  created: '2011-11-21 18:08:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some of it is tradition - in the metal days odd-number point sizes\r\nabove
    12 were very rare. Since each size had to be made individually\r\nyou had to conserve
    your efforts, and 12 was an important point size*,\r\nso the evens won out. Ironically
    nowadays, hand-hinting being roughly\r\ncomparable in terms of effort** concerning
    individual point sizes, when\r\none decides where to conserve effort, 13 and 15
    are the first to go!\r\n\r\n* Because it divides 72 evenly.\r\n\r\n** It's interesting
    that historically the figure of 8 hours\r\nper glyph was sort of a benchmark,
    and when I finished\r\nMana (http://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/)\r\nI did
    the math and it came to about 8 hours per glyph!\r\n\r\nBTW, do you plan on releasing
    your findings?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-21 19:20:35'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@noblematt\r\n\r\nFirst, I don't understand why you are using CSS 'pt' units
    for font-size.\r\n\r\nI can understand using 'pt' for print style sheets, but
    for web pages, it runs overwhelmingly counter to current practice which is to
    use 'px'. (There are some layout techniques which use ems and percents but that's
    the exception.)\r\n\r\nWhat pixel sizes are we talking about? \r\n\r\nI produce
    fonts for the web. I only test fonts in web browers. I do not use a \"hand-hinting\"
    program like VTT (Virtual True Type). I spend, probably, about 15 hours a week
    on hinting.  I have a test suite of web pages made for examining the results of
    hinting and other important measures of a font's qualities.\r\n\r\n(BTW - I have
    no idea what Hrant is talking about. [Sorry, Hrant. I can't make head or tail
    out of what you've written or it's relevance to screen rendering. To the point
    where I think you may have missed the point of the guy's question.] Being able
    to divide evenly into 72 has nothing to do with screen rendering.)\r\n\r\nI DO
    know what you are talking about, however. Although it certainly doesn't happen
    with every font or even most fonts. When it happens, my guess is that the scale
    of the font - the way it's \"quantized\" - is coinciding in some way with the
    natural divisions imposed by the pixel grid, which causes irregularities that
    cause an on-again, off-again effect as you move up (or down) in pixel sizes. I
    HAVE seen it, and it's an interesting question. \r\nFor me, by the time I'm finished
    processing the font, the problem disappears so I haven't thought about the cause
    much.\r\n\r\nWhat fonts are you looking at? Do you have any screenshots? If it's
    more convenient, feel free to contact me via email, FB, or leave a post on my
    blog.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard Fink</a>\r\nBlog:
    <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>\r\n\r\nOh,
    BTW - I'm deeply interested in what kind of font you consider truly a web font."
  created: '2011-11-26 05:29:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Matt was wondering why some sizes (like 13 and 15) don't\r\nlook as good
    (onscreen) as some other sizes, in some fonts.\r\nThis is because the fonts in
    question have been optimized\r\nmore for certain sizes and not others. I tried
    to explain how\r\na type designer might go about deciding what sizes to work\r\non
    more (since Design <em>is</em> essentially about compromise).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-26 05:56:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The pixel vs point naming of type sizes has gone the way of 72 points equal
    an inch.  In metal type, it just ain't so but it is so damn close that software
    developers just rounded it to align with the inch ruler. There was a fuss about
    this early on but the number of metal type purists has shrunk quite a bit since
    then.  Adobe software sizes a point as equaling a pixel.  This is not a problem
    because pixel sizes vary with whatever set-up you are looking at. Matt is perfectly
    fine using point size names on the web or screen.  It only really matters when
    you try to use \"pixel\" sizes when doing print work.  Since pixel size is variable,it
    can be a real problem using the term for print purposes. The other way is no problem
    with a wink and a nod.\r\n\r\nHrant is correct in his first post about metal type
    sizes and even numbers. Since this is a moot point in todays technology, it does
    not matter much.  What DOES matter is how a typeface is fitted to the grid that
    a screen uses to show type.  Where does the x-height hit,the sidebearings, crossbars,
    spaces, punctuation, etc..  \r\n\r\nMatthew Carter's web standard fonts were meticulously
    fitted to the pixel grid and work quite well.  Stem widths and counters that are
    even multiples of the pixel grid look great at the sizes they were fit to.  If
    your type looks great at a 2 pixel stem with, etc., when you size up by one point
    size, you knock it all haywire and nothing fits very well. \r\nRather than standardizing
    your font sizes on a given point size as a firm rule, you should first try out
    the typefaces you will really be using and find their sweet spot size.  You may
    find that Font X works best at 13 px but Font Y is best at 14 px.  You will need
    to fix your CSS to jive with your chosen font, not just in name, but in size as
    well.  Hinting will certainly help but being careful to mach font to fit size
    to sweet-spot on screen really matters."
  created: '2011-11-26 06:47:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Matt is perfectly fine using point size names on the web or screen.\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't think so. My evidence is that you go on to claim that px=pt, and it ain't
    so. Which clearly proves that there is some ambiguity there. :/\r\n\r\nBrowsers
    say that px x 3/4 = pt. Or if you prefer, pt x 4/3 = px. This is being enshrined
    in CSS 3. It originates from Windows with its former assumption of 96 dpi screens.
    So 13 pt = ~17 px, and 15 pt = 20 px.\r\n\r\nMac OS used to say that px=pt (assuming
    72 dpi screens), but I gather that even Safari has now compromised to be consistent
    with the rest of the web. If there are Adobe apps that still use px=pt, they are
    out of sync with the rest of the world now.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-11-26 09:01:55'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Common practice in CSS is to use a Reset, thereby syncing Win and Mac to
    the same base em. Factors of 76% and 81% are the most used ones.\r\n\r\nCSS3 has
    a new font-feature, called font-size-adjust, that can be used to harmonize cap-
    or x-heights.\r\n\r\nTypography IS getting better on the web."
  created: '2011-11-26 11:14:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, modern WIn and Mac browsers use the same base em for the web anyway,
    making the reset unnecessary for cross-platform reasons (though there may be other
    reasons). And all this just makes it worse in terms of understanding the actual
    size in px of the resulting font on screen.  :(\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-26 21:03:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That is why you always have to test what you want to use.
  created: '2011-11-26 21:50:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: There are other reasons indeed. Not everybody has the latest versions of everything,
    so using a reset.css helps to make sure that as many as possible are on the same
    hymnsheet (or stylesheet as it were) re indents, line spacing and all that.
  created: '2011-11-26 21:53:01'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Except that, more often than not, lazy web designers use resets because someone
    told them so (or, even ofter, they don't even know they're using one, because
    they're simply [mis]using some \"framework\" or other). And, because, as Chris
    rightly points out, you should always test, and they don't, they throw away a
    lot of meaningful things.\r\nBrowsers' defaults could differ, but are there for
    a reason."
  created: '2011-11-26 22:18:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nSorry, you're right. (Meaning, sorry, I was wrong.) I had to
    probe the prose a bit but he does seem to be talking about a range of small sizes.\r\n\r\nNow,
    if we only knew what noblematt means by \"hand hinting\" and why he's using pts
    rather than pixels and that there is a 3:4 ratio between pt and px sizes (15pt
    == 20px) so the diff between 13pt and 14 pt might be rounding to no diff at all.
    (Don't know for sure without testing.)\r\nAnd maybe he's using Firefox and has
    his browser set to 125% zoom and doesn't even know it.\r\nAnd I'm sure glad his
    firm's selling the best pies in London, 'cause life is hard.\r\n\r\nGive more
    facts noblematt, and maybe we can help.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-27 06:31:38'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@riccard0 -- When has <em>that</em> mattered to those web designers? They
    wanna be <em>newspaper</em> designers, FCOL!'
  created: '2011-11-27 15:23:13'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Sadly, this veered off topic. It''s hard to answer because you don''t say
    much about neither the issues nor the environment in which you are experiencing
    them. There is nothing inherent in y-direction truetype hinting (which is mostly
    what is offered nowadays) that will produce bad results for odd sizes. At least
    not that I can think of. If you target Win XP (y + x), and the hinting is poorly
    done (e.g. non-coherent and the resulting problems fixed with deltas), I can see
    some relevance to Hrants suggestion. On the other hand: I hint truetype and I''m
    way too young to remember metal type and I don''t consider even numbers more important
    for on-screen rendering. I''d probably give equal attention to all sizes I find
    relevant for the face.'
  created: '2011-11-28 00:43:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Agreeing with Frode for the most part.\r\n\r\nRich: \"so the diff between
    13pt and 14 pt might be rounding to no diff at all\"\r\n\r\nUrm, no, multiplying
    POINTS by 4/3 then rounding will always result in at least a one px difference,
    and occasionally a two px difference (one time in three), between consecutive
    point sizes. Going the other direction, two consecutive PIXEL sizes will round
    to no difference at all 1/4 of the time.\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-29 01:08:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@riccard0\r\n\r\n>Browsers' defaults could differ, but are there for a reason.\r\n\r\nCheck
    out the latest iteration of HTML5 Boilerplate. The resets on that take the approach
    you're suggesting. A more targeted approach. Change what needs changing.\r\n\r\n@t&eacute;
    Rowan\r\n>@riccard0 -- When has that mattered to those web\r\n>designers? They
    wanna be newspaper\r\n>designers, FCOL!\r\n\r\nThere is - I don't know what to
    call it yet except an attitude - that web design is crude but that as time goes
    by it will become more refined and it therefore will come more and more to resemble
    graphic design.\r\n\r\nThis won't happen. There is nothing crude about a well-designed
    web site.\r\nI suppose the scribes said something similar about the look of those
    books that guy Gutenberg was making.\r\nThey also said that all reggae music sounded
    the same and so stayed with Gregorian Chants.\r\n\r\nGraphic design will (and
    is) beginning to resemble web design.\r\n\r\nIt all lies in your perception, not
    in the thing itself.\r\n\r\nAnd incidentally, Rock'n'Roll is here to stay.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-29 01:36:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: A <em>well</em>-designed website, yes. Of course, a well-designed site is
    quite different from a well-designed book or magazine. But that's a whole different
    Sabrina anyway.
  created: '2011-11-29 12:36:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@t&eacute;\r\n>Of course, a well-designed site is quite different\r\n>from
    a well-designed book or magazine.\r\n\r\nWhat's well-designed? In a relatively
    new medium it's tough to tell.\r\nBut Keith Richards still ain't playin' Mozart.
    \r\n\r\nFor example, I wrote an article awhile back on hyphenation and justification
    of web text. The reaction was underwhelming. 'Cause nobody gives a sh-t, clearly.
    And lately, the web design books I read are - guess what - all set left aligned
    and look like a column from a web site slapped onto paper. It's a <em>style</em>.
    And since book design is a practical craft the main question is whether or not
    it's bolstering the message and in that respect, no problem.\r\nNot sure about
    the Sabrina reference but I liked the remake with Harrison Ford directed by Sidney
    Pollack (they did, too), even though the critics pissed on it. (Lesson: mess with
    films in the Pantheon at your own risk.)\r\n\r\n@tp\r\n\r\nOn the font-size pt
    versus px rounding: I'm sure you're correct and/or more accurate than my comment."
  created: '2011-11-29 15:43:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: The response on your hyphenation article was underwhelming because I tried
    it and it didn't work, if I remember correctly. And maybe also because you have
    a tendency to hijack threads?
  created: '2011-11-29 16:04:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "frode,\r\n\r\n>if I remember correctly\r\nPerhaps you should begin taking
    a memory supplement?\r\nTechnique works, worked. Sample pages still up and running
    on my server.\r\n\r\n>hijack threads\r\n\r\nHijack - no, just having an auxiliary
    chat with T&eacute; I guess we found what you had to say rather uninteresting.
    And in case you haven't noticed, the guy who started the thread hasn't had the
    interest or good manners to follow up. So just keep quiet and you won't get hurt.
    All I want is the thread. Get out, now!\r\n\r\nAs far as the level of interest
    in H&J among web designers - kid yourself if you want, but it's way low. Presentation
    has nothing to do with it. I believe two browsers now support H&J natively. I've
    not seen one article about it.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nType
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-30 00:43:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I wouldn\u2019t remember to take the pill, so no use. Let\u2019s just keep
    this thread on topic :)"
  created: '2011-11-30 01:42:52'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@Richard - I would not bet against the Keef playing Mozart. Or Beethoven.\r\n\r\nRe
    the Sabrina reference... the key is 'a whole different X' or, rather, 'a completely
    different $NAME' where NAME can be just about any proper name or unit noun that
    makes sense to you.\r\n\r\nAnyway, IMAO (when is my opinion not arrogant anyway?),
    a well-designed web site is or will be different from a well-designed book because
    the media are different. The book has potentially a fixed, very high dpi resolution
    and very precise placement of elements. The web site has neither. It doesn't even
    have a guaranteed form of user interface. A user may be viewing it on a large
    colour screen, a small monochrome screen or a VT102, or not viewing at all, but
    using a text-to-speech or text-to-Morse synth. For all I know, there might even
    be someone with an RJ45 Cat.6 jack in the skull."
  created: '2011-11-30 19:43:02'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@t&eacute;\r\n\r\n>@Richard - I would not bet against the Keef playing Mozart.
    Or Beethoven.\r\nI would dig it, frankly. But Keith never struck me as having
    the broad improv chops for this. Too bad Zappa's gone. He could wail on a Mozart
    concerto. And I'll bet he did, in private.\r\n\r\n> Anyway, ... a well-designed
    web site is or will be different from a well-designed book because the media are
    different. The book has potentially a fixed...\r\n\r\nWhole paragraph true. But
    yet swaths of folks ACT like it isn't true. But it's not a new phenom.\r\nI'd
    like to focus in on the word \"fixed\". Fixed media.\r\nFixed media versus Unfixed
    media sounds lame. And isn't very illuminating.\r\n\r\nDo you like \"Transigent
    Media\"? I have a whole list going, and I keep coming back to 'transigent'.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    BTW, I think the RJ45 jack in the skull or something like it will, ultimately
    be the next disruption. Thank heavens I most probably won't be alive for it.\r\n\r\nFixed
    versus Transigent media. It's got all the right connotations and it's a word going
    unused for anything else - you can find a definition for intransigent but none
    for transigent. And the meaning you would suppose it has by extrapolating out
    from \"intransigent\", works as a starting point.\r\n\r\nWell, somebody has to
    think of these things, right? Lemme know.\r\n\r\nFrode, you can let me know, too.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-30 20:25:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Rich: I think you want \"transient\" there. But even \"transient\" isn't
    quite right, that just implies impermanence, like ephemera. You need a word that
    suggests form change. Maybe \"mutable\"?\r\n\r\nOn the original topic again, I
    have seen cases where a manually hinted TTF got delta hints at some px sizes but
    not others, and there were some \"oddball\" sizes that were skipped. For example
    a font might get deltas at 9-16 and 18 px, but not 17 px."
  created: '2011-11-30 20:39:38'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tp\r\n\r\n<em>On the original topic again, I have seen cases where a manually
    hinted TTF got delta hints at some px sizes but not others, and there were some
    \"oddball\" sizes that were skipped. For example a font might get deltas at 9-16
    and 18 px, but not 17 px.</em>\r\n\r\nWas there an original topic? Jeez.\r\nOh
    yeah, Frode was bitchin' at me about that.\r\n\r\nYes, this gibes with what I've
    SEEN. But I didn't go digging into the TT hinting to see exactly what was going
    on. At some metrics you really have to look close to even see the \"size\" difference
    between pixel sizes. It's as much a shape difference as a size difference sometimes.
    (Small size settings, of course.)\r\n\r\nBoth \"transient\" and \"mutable\" on
    list. But transigent media is both mutable and transient. (See where I'm going
    with this? Transigent is an empty vessel, sitting there waiting for somebody to
    fill it up. It's like somebody put it on the \"reserved for future use\" list.
    I might as well claim it for this.)\r\nBiggest problem for me is that it's little
    high-falutin'. A tad pretentious.\r\nI've got my eye on \"Loose Media\", too.
    Fixed versus loose. But, of course, transigent media is loose. Or perhaps its
    transigent <em>design</em> that's loose?\r\n\r\n(Yeah, yeah, I see it coming:
    And who let YOU loose, Fink?)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-30 22:37:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Or we might get ultraoriginal and think of it as a canvas. It's been used
    already? Oh, bletch.\r\n\r\nI'll comment on hinting when I know more than <code>ttfautohint
    cruddy.ttf >betterq.ttf</code>"
  created: '2011-12-01 00:03:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Rich: \"But transigent media is both mutable and transient.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    no. It's a made-up backformation from \"intransigent\" (uncompromising), which
    comes from the French verb \"transiger\" which means \"to compromise.\" It has
    too much of the wrong meaning already to be used in this way.\r\n\r\nIf you don't
    like \"mutable,\" how about \"protean\"?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-12-01 19:15:17'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Still, web design's gotta be quite adaptive.\r\n\r\nObTopic: It's possible
    that the font renderer, the design and the trek birds' migration patterns make
    it look like the fonts tested are optimised for even px."
  created: '2011-12-01 20:46:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: With print,the designer or compositor could control the piece of paper that
    the reader saw.  Today, on-screen type on the Web is never a match to what the
    the originator made.  Actually, tablets like iPad seem to be better at keeping
    consistency.  Of course you have many user definable adjustments even there.
  created: '2011-12-01 23:44:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tp\r\n<em>Well, no. It's a made-up backformation from \"intransigent\" (uncompromising),
    which comes from the French verb \"transiger\" which means \"to compromise.\"
    It has too much of the wrong meaning already to be used in this way.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks!
    Compromise is exactly the base meaning I'm looking for. But it's moot, I've called
    off the search. (But like Raymond Chandler wrote - the French have a word for
    everything.)\r\nBut words can mean whatever I want them to mean. Haven't you read
    \"Alice In Wonderland\"?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-05 12:18:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Rich: I don''t think you pay them enough.  ;)'
  created: '2011-12-05 18:13:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: http://typophile.com/node/80015
  created: '2011-12-28 12:44:15'
date: '2011-11-21 15:46:01'
node_type: forum
title: Are web-fonts optimised for even number px/pt size rather than odd?

---
