---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "As a type designer, I tend to have my nose so close to my personal grindstone
  that I'm not always aware what my colleagues have been up to, which is a problem
  when I'm actually looking for a typeface to use and don't have anything appropriate
  in my own knife block. So I'm looking for suggestions for possible types to use
  for a publishing project. The brief is as follows:\r\n\r\nFamily must consist of
  a minimum of roman and italic serif types in in a regular or book weight. Bold and
  other weight variants appreciated, and may become necessary. Must support at minimum
  western European Latin character set, and should include appropriate ligatures,
  smallcaps, numeral variant styles, etc.\r\n\r\nThe design should be of medium stroke
  contrast, i.e. not extreme \xE0 la Didot but not too heavily low contrast. The types
  will eventually need to harmonise on the page with some non-Latin scripts, some
  of which involve complex forms that must not get too dense.\r\n\r\nThe type should
  be clear and readable in the range of 9pt to 11pt.\r\n\r\nThe scripts with which
  the types will need to harmonise include both strong verticals and very round forms,
  as well as terminals and stroke reversals creating ball or hook forms. If similar
  forms are details of the Latin types, this can assist the harmony on the page. Some
  amount of roundness of forms is probably going to be most helpful in overall harmony;
  sharp, incised forms are probably not going to help.\r\n\r\nSome of the scripts
  involved in the publishing project have, conventionally, a diagonal stroke weight
  axis, and others have a vertical axis. The Latin type could go either way, or be
  a hybrid (\xE0 la Kepler and Brill).\r\n\r\nI'd like to use a recent design and
  see some money go to a living designer. A contemporary feel, as opposed to a 'classic'
  one, is acceptable, but not if it might date too quickly or be considered too-2011.\r\n\r\nIt
  will be important that the EULA permits modifications to the font (not for distribution),
  or willingness on the part of the designer/foundry to work with me on making some
  modifications.\r\n\r\nSo, suggestions?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: http://www.typejockeys.com/fonts/Ingeborg
  created: '2011-11-22 01:17:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hi John, I don't know from your description whether Williams Caslon Text
    is a candidate. The italic has hooks, but not the roman. \r\n\r\nSome books I
    know about who have used it are: Foliomania! referred to in these two links: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.finebooksmagazine.com/fine_books_blog/2011/06/foliomania.phtml\r\n\r\nhttp://news.mohawkpaper.com/2011/10/04/foliomania/\r\n\r\nBruce
    Kennett did a beautiful job with it, and used a wonderful matte paper that shows
    both the type and illustrations beautifully. The links don't have close up photos,
    but if you are interested I can take some. \r\n\r\nA more modest book, a Penguin
    style paperback, with Williams Caslon Text used at 10 point, was done by Dan Haskett,
    an English illustrator. You can see some photos of it in the link. Boston Magazine
    also used it at 10 point for a few years. You can see some photos of it on the
    FontBureau site.  \r\n\r\nhttp://www.danhaskett.co.uk/new-work/bonobo-press/\r\n\r\nI
    don't know how it works at 9 point in a book, but I've done a small size also,
    not finished, but I used it in my own book Pirke Avot: Timeless Wisdom for Modern
    Life (Jewish Publication Society) for appendices. I'm working on the small italic
    for another designer who wants to use it. "
  created: '2011-11-22 01:46:23'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<Cite>I'd like to use a recent design and see some money go to a living designer</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is a good principle that deserves wider currency. \r\n\r\nLast year, I picked
    Lyon over Sabon for my book in part because I wanted to support a independent
    type designer. But I've come to think there will be a more acute need to support
    independent type designers as a matter of principle.\r\n\r\n(BTW I'll define \"independent
    type designer\" as the opposite of \"type designer who is employed full-time at
    a major corporation,\" of which there are a dwindling number.)\r\n\r\nDuring most
    other periods in printing history, fonts would go obsolete or just wear out every
    few decades, creating an opportunity for new ones. But that's not the case in
    the digital era. Digital fonts can live forever. This is convenient in some ways
    (which I don't think I have to enumerate) but potentially harmful in others. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not someone who thinks \"we don't need any more fonts.\" Yes, we certainly do.
    But I also think that the \"more is better\" strategy that has guided digital
    foundries over the last 20 years is not sustainable indefinitely. \r\n\r\nText
    faces are a good example. Based on how often I see them in use, Minion and Adobe
    Garamond seem as popular as ever, even though they're both nearly 20 years old.
    What's to stop them from another 20 years of popularity? 35? 50? The only thing
    I can think of is someone buys the Adobe library and just takes it off the market.
    But no one would rationally do that (because the fonts are popular!) So how do
    you compete with an entrenched face like Minion or Adobe Garamond that will never
    go extinct naturally?\r\n\r\nFirst, there's an economic problem. Type design can't
    make progress unless type designers are designing type. (Duh.) And we only get
    new type designers if there's some reasonable economic incentive to design type.
    (Duh.) Every dollar that goes to Minion, for instance, is a dollar that can't
    go to Lyon. And if dollars don't go to Lyon, a guy like Kai Bernau will find something
    else to do with his time. (I made a similar point with respect to [[http://typophile.com/node/85575#comment-477843|Robofont]].)\r\n\r\nThen
    there's a second problem: the risk of typographic stagnation. We think of Minion
    and Adobe Garamond as \"classic workhorse\" faces of the digital world, but that's
    largely because they came on the scene early and were able to establish themselves
    without having to contend with a lot of competition. Where are the workhorses
    of the future going to come from if they're not getting a platform now? If book
    designers who can afford to give new fonts a push are just using Minion and Adobe
    Garamond instead of Ingeborg, or Lyon, or Kingfisher, or Verdigris, or Paperback,
    or Elena, or Freight, or Quiosco, et al.\u2014how are those designers investing
    in the future of typography? (I trust I need not explain why people who make a
    living off typography should be interested in helping sustain it.)\r\n\r\nSo while
    I don't advocate the formation of an OPEC-style font cartel, I think anyone who
    cares about the progress of typography should care enough to vote with their wallet.
    And that means whenever you can buy a font from an independent type designer for
    your own project, or influence someone else to buy one for their project: <strong>DO
    IT</strong>.\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm not exempt from criticism under this principle. In
    the last few years, I know a lot of people have bought fonts like Sabon and Stempel
    Garamond based on my recommendation. I hereby repent. Because as a type designer,
    my royalty reports are a source of encouragement. And one of the ways I can reinvest
    in typography is by helping other type designers get the same kind of encouragement.
    \r\n\r\nWhich I do \u2014 but I could do more. Sure, Stempel Garamond is a great
    face. But it's had a good long run. Now it's time for another text face to get
    a chance. If I'm going to give a push to anything, that new face, and its designer,
    need it more than Stempel Garamond does."
  created: '2011-11-22 03:04:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The types will eventually need to harmonise on the page with some non-Latin
    scripts\r\n\r\nIn my view this will become the root of the problem/solution.\r\nFirst:
    what do the relationships between the various scripts need to be?\r\nSecond: since
    there are so many good Latin text faces and so few good\r\nnon-Latin ones, unless
    the project will entail the designing of non-Latin\r\nscripts to match a Latin
    \"benchmark\", the non-Latin fonts need to be\r\nchosen first. And if the chosen
    Latin face will be given new non-Latin\r\ndesigns, the scripts to be supported
    will help choose a good Latin basis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 05:41:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Arno, Ingeborg is indeed lovely; it is probably my favourite typeface to
    emerge from the Reading MA programme. It is probably too high contrast for this
    project, but I'll take another look.\r\n\r\nBill, I'd prefer not to use a revival,
    nice though your Caslon is.\r\n\r\nMatthew, that's a very interesting discussion
    that I would normally enjoy, but I really am looking for typeface suggestions.
    :)"
  created: '2011-11-22 06:13:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, the non-Latin fonts will be new designs. I don't really want to give
    details of which scripts, beyond what I have already said about their characteristics,
    because I don't want to influence suggestions through associations. Also, the
    other scripts are of essentially two different kinds, and I know what I'll need
    to harmonise with them when I see it.\r\n\r\nLet me rephrase the brief: I'm looking
    for nice, medium contrast text faces suitable for book work that are not too angular."
  created: '2011-11-22 06:18:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Matthew, thanks for mentioning <a href="http://www.carvalho-bernau.com/retailfonts/lyon/">Lyon</a>,
    of which I was unaware. This is a very interesting design, which I'll definitely
    add to my list of possibilities. It has a nice smoothness of curves that might
    harmonise well with the rounder scripts, while having an oblique axis that would
    reflect the others. The echoes of Granjon give it the qualities of a classic book
    face, but there is lots of contemporary feel in the treatment of serifs and other
    details.
  created: '2011-11-22 06:27:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://blog.eyemagazine.com/?p=7260\r\n\r\nI would also look at Fleishmann
    revivals. Yves Peters once did a decent round-up,\r\nin the second article here:
    http://www.typographer.org/2005_06_01_digests.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 06:59:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Hrant. I'd already noted Antwerp as a possibility.
  created: '2011-11-22 08:07:41'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "I recently very much enjoyed reading a publication set in Cycles by Sumner
    Stone. http://www.stonetypefoundry.com/cyclesoverview.html\r\n\r\nAnd Matthew
    did mention some great recommendable faces \u2013 \u201CIngeborg, or Lyon, or
    Kingfisher, or Verdigris, or Paperback, or Elena, or Freight, or Quiosco\u201D.
    Speaking of Fleischmann I would like to add his own recent revival of a transitional
    design, Equity. Maybe too narrow and dark for your case but a good option for
    huge amounts of text: http://www.equityfont.com\r\n\r\nWhen you said \u201Cboth
    strong verticals and very round forms, as well as terminals and stroke reversals
    creating ball or hook forms\u201D it made me think of the typefaces by <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/search/designer%3Adwiggins+tag%3Aserif/fonts/?refby=i\">Dwiggins</a>,
    <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/search/designer%3A%28cyrus+highsmith%29+tag%3Aserif/fonts/?refby=i\">Cyrus
    Highsmith</a> and <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/search/designer%3A%28john+downer%29+tag%3Aserif/fonts/?refby=i\">John
    Downer</a>. Maybe Zocalo, Iowan Old Style or yes, <a href=\"http://www.houseind.com/fonts/paperback\">Paperback</a>?"
  created: '2011-11-22 14:00:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually that stuff makes me think of Baskerville.\r\nAnd Ernestine's imaginary
    contrasty sister.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 14:25:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "My favorite underused book faces (other than those mentioned):\r\n<a href=\"https://www.fontfont.com/fonts/clifford-nine?aid=2\">FF
    Clifford</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/monotype/laurentian_std_volume/?affid=99346\">Laurentian</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/ourtype/arnhem_professional_ot/?affid=99346\">Arnhem</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/creative_alliance/berling_nova_pro_complete_pack/\">Berling
    Nova</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.teff.nl/fonts/renard/index.html\">Renard</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://vllg.com/Feliciano/Merlo#panel=poster-usage-about\">Merlo</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/mvbfonts/mbv-verdigris-pro/?refby=typographica\">MVB
    Verdigris</a>"
  created: '2011-11-22 14:29:00'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "John, I recently bought [[http://www.optimo.ch/typefaces_Genath.html|Genath]]
    from optimo in Switzerland. Designed by Fran\xE7ois Rappo who also did the excellent
    Theinhardt, which is more than an Akzidenz Grotesk revival. From their specimen:\r\n<em>\u201CGenath
    is a free, simple rendering of a baroque type from the Genath Foundry in Basle,
    Switzerland. It\u2019s based on a 1720 specimen likely showing Johann Wilhelm
    Haas first design in Basle.\u201D</em>\r\nI haven\u2019t used it yet. I do from
    time to time just buy something because I like it, I may use it (we only use what
    we have on our drives) or because the designer or the foundry could use my support.
    Just like Matthew said."
  created: '2011-11-22 14:40:13'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "For reference:\r\nIn the thread <em>Choosing a font for book design</em>,
    Carl Crossgrove <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/39592#comment-244536\">lists
    several \u2018new, excellent book types\u2019</a>. Further down the page, he adds
    <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/39592#comment-244586\">some more names</a>."
  created: '2011-11-22 14:55:52'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "John, for what matters, I regulary use Cycles by Sumner Stone and Athelas
    by Jos\xE9 Scaglione in typesetting books. They're both original designs somehow
    based on or inspired by classical forms and models, but they stand in their own
    league as beautiful, readable contemporary typefaces for books. Cycles has a more
    calligraphic feel (Sumner's touch is evident in all his types), while Athelas
    tends to be more \"anonymous\" on the page, so to say (which can be a plus for
    long text readings), but they both work in a very nice way - and they surely have
    \"some amount of roundness of forms\". Don't know about EULA modifications, anyway,
    or how they could be paired with scripts. I would also be happy to show you some
    page settings, if this may help."
  created: '2011-11-22 15:10:39'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "If you like Lyon, have a look a Rawlinson. It is a bit more classic in its
    details, which I like. However no SMC in italics. The terminals are quite neutral
    I find, probably one could categorize as \"not ball terminals yet\", but a bit
    roundish. \r\nCycles is one of the few commercial fonts I own, it is a great piece
    of work. I don\u2019t do professional work with type however. I am glad it is
    again sold on the retail market. "
  created: '2011-11-22 15:22:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Stewf--Renard is a jewel!
  created: '2011-11-22 15:44:12'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "To be fair, designers of text faces should be doing more to make their wares
    easier to test and buy. For instance: \r\n\r\nJohn Hudson now has an excellent
    (and growing) list of nominees. How does someone in his position choose from these
    faces? \r\n\r\nIf he visits the websites, he will see cruddy GIFs. Those don't
    help. \r\n\r\nThere might be an online type tester. I guess these things are useful
    to find out what shape the Q tail is, but they're completely useless for measuring
    nuance, and text faces thrive on nuance. (Why do type designers even want customers
    making buying decisions with a type tester? Don't kid yourself\u2014if it's there,
    they will)\r\n\r\nIf he's lucky, there will be a PDF specimen. But most PDF specimens
    are, frankly, not very good\u2014usually they only present the face in a clinical
    manner (\"Here are the OpenType features...\"), and omit realistic texts in realistic
    contexts. They are boring when they should be inspiring. Never in the history
    of typography has someone been persuaded to buy a font through sheer boredom.\r\n\r\nFor
    John, probably the best test would be to have the actual fonts in hand and take
    them for a test drive himself. He could buy the fonts and do some test seettings,
    but fonts are typically nonreturnable. And they're not licensed on a per-project
    basis, only per-workstation. And they're not cheap enough that he can just buy
    several purely on an exploratory basis.\r\n\r\nSo here lies the conundrum. How
    is someone supposed to commit to a new text face when they can't even see what
    it will look like in a real-world context? \r\n\r\nI know John Hudson himself
    is not going to throw up his hands and say \"I guess I'll just use Minion.\" But
    you can start to see why other book designers might. One of the reasons entrenched
    faces like Minion continue to dominate is because any designer can picture exactly
    what the result will look like. When you use Minion, there won't be any negative
    surprises. There won't be any positive surprises either, but hey, you don't get
    a bonus for positive surprises. But you will get fired for negative surprises.\r\n\r\nSo
    we do need to encourage customers to support independent type designers. But we
    also need to encourage independent type designers not to push so much risk onto
    the customer. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 16:38:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thank you so much everyone (and especially Indra for pointing out the suggestions
    buried in Matthew's first post: I was trying to avoid being sidetracked by his
    interesting discussion, and missed them on the first, overly quick read).\r\n\r\n<em>When
    you said \u201Cboth strong verticals and very round forms, as well as terminals
    and stroke reversals creating ball or hook forms\u201D it made me think of the
    typefaces by Dwiggins, Cyrus Highsmith and John Downer. Maybe Zocalo, Iowan Old
    Style or yes, Paperback?</em>\r\n\r\nI'll revisit these, but my mental image of
    them is that they tend to contain a lot of internal corners and broken curves,
    which I think will not work well in this project. Some of the scripts I am working
    with <em>can</em> support such features, but the others are derived from palm
    leaf lettering, and smooth curves are a key characteristic."
  created: '2011-11-22 18:17:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew: <em>So we do need to encourage customers to support independent
    type designers. But we also need to encourage independent type designers not to
    push so much risk onto the customer.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree. This is one of the reasons
    why I think it is important for independent type designers to establish direct
    relationships with customers, rather than relying on third party distributors
    or resellers. This engenders the kind of trust that makes it possible for book
    designers to request and receive copies of fonts under trial license.\r\n\r\nThe
    other option, of course, is to link licensing fees to commercial use of a font,
    rather than to its installation. I have several clients who have taken this approach
    with their custom fonts, making them available at no cost for non-commercial use,
    which would include test settings for possible commercial use. [But not, I would
    say, use in specimens that are intended to try to obtain paid work, e.g. mock-ups
    in a portfolio: the commercial use is defined by the intent to generate income,
    not the success in doing so.]"
  created: '2011-11-22 18:26:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm starting to think that maybe a flare-serif would be just the ticket.\r\nWhat
    about the nicely round Avance?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 18:26:59'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "Like I said, Matthew: designers will only use the fonts they actually have
    on their hard-drives. FontShop Germany used to offer fonts on a trial basis to
    some \u201Cpreferred customers\u201D. I think that is a great idea. If a foundry
    gives me their fonts and I sign a paper, no way would I use those illegitimately.
    Only problem is that fonts are data and data is gas. It spreads into any given
    volume. If you\u2019re in a studio environment with freelancers and interns coming
    and going, your fonts are going to be at large, and not necessarily by criminal
    intent. They\u2019ll be packaged into Indesign files, moved over to a server.
    That lack of control is what has prevented many studios asking for that sort of
    service."
  created: '2011-11-22 18:31:06'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "<em>\u2026 my mental image of them is that they tend to contain a lot of
    internal corners and broken curves, which I think will not work well in this project.</em>\r\n\r\nAh,
    then I totally misunderstood you John, sorry, because I meant exactly that corner/curve
    thing."
  created: '2011-11-22 19:27:28'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "\u20B0"
  created: '2011-11-22 19:31:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@John: <em>\u2026it is important for independent type designers to establish
    direct relationships with customers, rather than relying on third party distributors
    or resellers\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nWhile I am not averse to direct relationships,
    it is somewhat at odds with the whole premise of mass productization.\r\nMinimizing
    the necessity for labor-intensive customer service enables mass volume, low prices
    for consumers, and high profits for manufacturers."
  created: '2011-11-22 19:34:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Which is exactly what lowers quality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 19:41:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Most people would prefer an inexpensive product that works perfectly right
    out of the box and requires as little customer service as possible.\r\nA well-designed
    e-commerce site helps accomplish that.\r\nOf course, there is a role for customer
    service, and no doubt a special role for it in font sales, but the majority of
    retail font licensing should not require it."
  created: '2011-11-22 19:51:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Which is exactly why China is winning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 20:19:33'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>Only problem is that fonts are data and data is gas. It spreads into
    any given volume. If you\u2019re in a studio environment with freelancers and
    interns coming and going, your fonts are going to be at large, and not necessarily
    by criminal intent.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course. There will always be hurdles to overcome
    in terms of balancing safety with exposure. But more type dies of obscurity than
    piracy. Over the long term, the risks of <em>not</em> overcoming these hurdles
    are potentially dire.\r\n\r\nFor example, why not let customers generate PDF samples
    on demand? Customers could upload a tagged text file to the web, specify the font,
    size, leading, and measure, and get back a PDF made to those specifications. Limit
    them to 1000 words. Then the font files never go anywhere. (Sort of like fontfonter.com,
    but for print)\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 20:34:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually for a while URW (and then LettError) were\r\nselling \"on-demand\"
    EPS settings, for a few bucks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 20:54:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, I think there are several different kinds of markets for fonts, and
    in some of those markets I think it is in type designers' interests to establish
    personal relationships with customers. So, art directors, newspaper designers
    and book designers strike me as the sort of customers with whom one wants personal
    relationships that can be mutually beneficial. For the type designer these relationships
    can lead to custom commissions, nice portfolio specimens, etc., and for the customers
    they can facilitate test licensing agreements, rapid response for special needs
    (e.g. the diacritic they need added in order to typeset an African politician's
    name), etc.\r\n\r\nI never suggested that anyone needs a complicated order fulfillment
    system in order to enforce a relationship with all customers. That would be stupid.
    My point was that if one relies completely on systems that sit between and isolate
    you from customers, that decreases the possibility of developing relationships
    that can be mutually beneficial."
  created: '2011-11-22 21:38:49'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>I agree. This is one of the reasons why I think it is important for
    independent type designers to establish direct relationships with customers, rather
    than relying on third party distributors or resellers. This engenders the kind
    of trust that makes it possible for book designers to request and receive copies
    of fonts under trial license.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree too. However you should ask
    OurType about their experiences with trial licenses\u2026 :^/"
  created: '2011-11-22 22:27:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's true John, and I do it all the time.\r\nFor instance today I have
    just been emailing a customer who wants some CE versions of an older Shinntype
    face for a Polish newspaper. The retail versions don't have CE, but I am able
    to supply them, as I developed them for a previous customer, but have not yet
    got around to releasing them.\r\n\r\nHowever, customer contact only occurs for
    a small percentage of Shinntype sales.\r\n\r\nThis is the Shinntype perspective
    that I'm describing: our main business is from publishing retail fonts through
    third party distributors.\r\n\r\nSure, I retail types that have been custom developed,
    after a period of exclusivity has expired, this is a good model financially.\r\nBut
    it is not a model I would like to be beholden too, as the tendency is for clients
    to want \"something like so-and-so\" and there are other less conservative, less
    derivative ideas I would prefer to pursue.\r\n\r\nI believe this foundry-driven
    approach is just as client-benefiting as commissioned work.\r\nIt's Jobs-style
    leadership."
  created: '2011-11-22 22:32:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "If I could choose between Renard and <a href=\"http://www.teff.nl/fonts/geronimo/index.html\">Geronimo</a>,
    I would choose Geronimo. M\xE1rio Feliciano is a genious."
  created: '2011-11-22 22:45:56'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'John, have you seen Sindre''s Satyr? I know he''s made a lot of progress
    since posting here. '
  created: '2011-11-22 23:09:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Geronimo's vertical proportions are imbalanced.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-22 23:31:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'H & FJ''s Chronicle has ball terminals, moderate contrast, and is very well
    crafted. To me it''s a bit of revival of Century, but don''t let that bother you
    :) '
  created: '2011-11-22 23:33:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Quite a few of the suggested typefaces were designed for newspaper or magazine
    use. I like them, but their proportions are probably wrong for the kind of book
    work I have in mind (x-height too large, extenders too stubby. It would be nice
    if more foundries took the time to produce book variants of such types, although
    I suppose more and more the book design market is a shrinking one.
  created: '2011-11-22 23:59:42'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Geronimo's vertical proportions are imbalanced.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I am amateur. I had to riddle. What do you mean, Hrant? I have printed the PDF
    and if the vertical proportions are imbalanced, it doesn't seem to bother the
    reading. Imbalanced like Bembo?"
  created: '2011-11-23 00:05:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: John, I think a lot of the designers of the short extender typefaces, like
    Stone, would argue with you that they are book faces. Certainly their are a lot
    of books that use them, with a large amount of leading. I'm not that fond of the
    look, but just thinking about it now, if you look at the longer extender books
    faces, a lot of them are revivals, like Garamond Premier, and Eudald and Merlo.
  created: '2011-11-23 01:54:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because languages that use the Latin script rely on ascenders\r\nmuch more
    than descenders, a font that makes the latter longer\r\nthan (or even the same
    size as) the former isn't what I consider a\r\n\"true\" text font. Of course it's
    not that such a font is unreadable,\r\nit's simply that it's not <em>optimal</em>
    for text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-23 02:01:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Quite a few of the suggested typefaces were designed for newspaper
    or magazine use. I like them, but their proportions are probably wrong for the
    kind of book work I have in mind (x-height too large, extenders too stubby. It
    would be nice if more foundries took the time to produce book variants of such
    types, although I suppose more and more the book design market is a shrinking
    one.</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn, one of the things we do with fonts for text -- given
    a useful EULA or with permission -- is to examine the extenders. It's not unusual
    for me to lengthen them. The \"g\" is the toughest, and then there are all those
    f-ligatures in the italic.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, there are fonts where lengthening
    the extenders is just the wrong thing to do -- determined experimentally, of course,
    meaning you do the work, then put back the originals. Charis/Charter is one such.
    I find it useful, and the shortness of the extenders not an aesthetic problem
    for the texts it's appropriate for. Arnhem Blond, on the other hand, would greatly
    benefit from a set of longer descenders for book work.\r\n\r\nI also find the
    weight of fonts an issue for bookwork. I was stunned once to hear someone from
    Adobe mention that they made the medium weights esp. for books. Then I realized
    they may only think of coated papers for books. Sometime take a look at Merlo
    on an uncoated sheet versus a coated sheet. I use to think it too heavy for text,
    until I saw it used in a book printed on a matte coated stock. Quite nice.\r\n\r\nI
    have read this thread somewhat, and as someone who sets type and designs books,
    haven't found the things that interest you guys of interest to me. Perhaps some
    marketing issues lie here?\r\n\r\n* * *\r\nHrant, you're right of course, but
    that ignores the fact than many, many fonts have descenders that can be lengthened
    and still keep that balance. It is not trivially easy to lengthen descenders,
    or for that matter, to lengthen both. The font will tell you when you go too far,
    if you pay attention to it.\r\n\r\nI'll offer this thought: A good text font,
    once you get past the letterforms themselves, offers several size/leading combinations
    where the font works. That is, not only can you set several sizes, but you can
    use a 10-point on 12, 13, or 14-points of lead, and it works quite well. You'd
    be amazed at the number of fonts that cannot do that. All spatial relations are
    important, and interact."
  created: '2011-11-23 02:17:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, there are certainly kinds of books for which types with large x-heights
    -- a better characterisation than short extenders per se -- are useful and even
    most appropriate. In this case, it is literary publishing, and something with
    a more classic feel to the page is appropriate. That said, my comment was directed
    specifically at the suggestion of types like Chronicle, which seem specifically
    designed for news or journal work.\r\n\r\nI'll be able to say more about the project
    in the near future, I think, but I don't want to steal any thunder from the client's
    press department."
  created: '2011-11-23 03:52:36'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "John: <cite>\u201Cit is important for independent type designers to establish
    direct relationships with customers\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nFor a certain kind of
    font development this is more than true. I would count typical book faces and
    fonts for scientific editing into that class. For Andron I can only say, user
    feedback has proved to be very beneficial for its development over the years.
    And the users are happy to see their issues dealt with."
  created: '2011-11-23 09:09:16'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "As Sumner Stone offered his Cycles for some time on a use-based licence,
    I am sure he offers to adjust the font if needed. Book body text is the main purpose
    of this typeface. The 2009 licence did not allow modification, but since the Cycles
    fonts are freshly back on the retail market, maybe they have a new licence too,
    or one can buy them with an upgraded licence. Sumner is very accommodating towards
    his customers. \r\nAs you liked the rather contemporary Lyon, [[http://www.type-together.com/Edita|Edita]]
    is a contemporary serif typeface, they advertise it is a book typeface with long
    extenders."
  created: '2011-11-23 09:22:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Cycles could be a serious contender: the roundness is a really good match
    for some of the scripts we''re dealing with, but it isn''t as static looking as
    some of the other round faces I''ve looked at.'
  created: '2011-11-23 09:35:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Does anyone have a PDF showing of Cycles (esp. Cycles 11 and 9)? The online
    samples are all bitmap images.
  created: '2011-11-23 18:39:15'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: John, I have sent you an email.
  created: '2011-11-23 18:51:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm pretty sure I do, since I actually caught a mistake in it\r\nonce (one
    of the optical sizes was duplicated and one was\r\nmissing), which Sumner duly
    corrected. Let me look for it.\r\n\r\nBut you could always ask him too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-23 18:53:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Found it, but Florian beat me to it!  :-)\r\n\r\nI did also find a 7-page
    PDF excerpt of Cycles in use (something\r\ncalled \"Science & the promise of democracy
    in America\" by one\r\nAndrew Jewett). It seems to be from a book called \"D\xE6dalus
    Fall\",\r\npublished in 2003. Let me know if you'd like that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-23 18:58:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "John \u2014 Do you have copies of the old ATypI publication <em>Type</em>,
    circa 1997\u201398? These were set in a variety of the Cycles typefaces. Sumner
    probably continued to tinker, but these give a good representation of their general
    performance."
  created: '2011-11-23 19:24:55'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "That was a good hint hrant. It is from the D\xE6dalus Journal, there is a
    free article in this issue, which everybody can access: \r\nhttp://www.mitpressjournals.org/toc/daed/134/4\r\nShowing
    Cycles 11 and 24. "
  created: '2011-11-23 19:49:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks! Ah, so \"Fall\" was the quarter.  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, that PDF I have
    actually shows the 9, 10, 11 and 24.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-23 19:53:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kent, yes, I do have the ATypI journals. I was looking for a PDF (thanks,
    Florian and Hant) to send to the book designer who is working on this project.\r\n\r\nFurther
    suggestions eagerly appreciated."
  created: '2011-11-23 20:42:49'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Well, I love Cycles as well, though I'm still looking for a project to use
    it for. \r\n\r\nOther favorites, though perhaps too quirky for your project, are
    ITC Mendoza and Photina by Jos\xE9 Mendoza y Almeida. Both are really beautiful
    for books. Mendoza has a very sturdy and open look which I like a lot, Photina
    is more classical but with calligraphic flow.\r\n\r\nCalluna is a bestseller,
    but still I'd love to see it used in a book context. It is very complete in its
    character set, and it has an interesting but not disruptive set on the page."
  created: '2011-11-23 22:16:53'
- author:
    name: johndberry
    picture: 109524
  body: "Matthew's points about availability of something that you can really judge
    a text face by are true, but no one has mentioned the obvious, and traditional,
    way of judging a face: by looking at other books that have used it. While we're
    supporting our local type designers, let's at least browse our local  bookstores,
    too.\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-29 02:23:17'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "<em>Queneau:\r\nCalluna is a bestseller, but still I'd love to see it used
    in a book context. It is very complete in its character set, and it has an interesting
    but not disruptive set on the page.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is in use for books:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/exljbris/4171132017/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/exljbris/4429306594/"
  created: '2011-12-01 16:05:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Calluna has some nice features, but I have an aversion to <em>e</em> with
    a slanted crossbar. Griffo had it right when he fixed Jenson's model.
  created: '2011-12-01 17:10:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/super_families/ff_seria/|Seria]] is a
    book face with tall ascenders, and a distinctive, modern look. It doesn''t have
    the ball terminals and hooks, though. You might have to draw this one :) '
  created: '2011-12-01 18:04:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"but I have an aversion to e with a slanted crossbar. \"\r\n\r\nWhy is that,
    John?"
  created: '2011-12-01 18:35:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, I think it has something to do with the perception of informality,
    contrary to the evolved typographic form of the formal book hand. I think this
    is what Griffo understood, and why Jenson had it wrong: he regularised many aspects
    of the humanist book hand when he reduced it to type, but left the slanted crossbar
    which then looks out of place in the greater regularity of the typographic page.
    Griffo fixes this, and establishes the normative form of the typographic e. I've
    yet to see a serif text face with an e with the slanted crossbar that I didn't
    think would be improved on the page with a less casual shape.\r\n\r\nFurther on
    this subject, Plantin's types are interesting because the crossbar actually slants
    down to the right: a feature that I do not recall reproduced in any revivals.
    I don't think the impression this gives of the e being rotated clockwise is helpful,
    but the tightening of the lower counter seems to help the visual rhythm by creating
    a stronger right side to the letter. Recently I've experimented with flaring the
    crossbar, running the underside in a subtle downward to achieve the same effect.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SBL
    BibLit e_4489.png]\r\n\r\n[SBL BibLit]"
  created: '2011-12-01 21:07:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nSo you mean as a historic form, then?  I can understand your wanting
    to preserve the style of the old classic faces but why does that matter for a
    21st century face like Calluna?  I don't know what your subject matter is for
    your book, but I would imagine that you think it needs to retain the feeling of
    the older metal types.  Personally, I am more interested in how well someone solves
    the visual problems he makes for himself whatever the means.  My question would
    be,  was it a well done diagonal and did it suit the rest of the face? To slant
    or not means little to me, as the man says, \"The devil is in the details.\"\r\n\r\nI
    do admit that in book faces, the opening of the lower half of the \"e\" is helped
    by a reduction in the eye of the e.  This seems to work well with roman faces
    or at least those with contrast.  It is tougher with a low contrast sans at bolder
    weights.  I am sometimes tempted to break the crossbar just before the join to
    get out of the pickle."
  created: '2011-12-01 23:29:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "No, I don't mean as an historic form. I mean that I think e with a slanted
    crossbar always looks more informal than one with a horizontal bar, and unless
    the rest of the typeface design is similarly informal the e ends up looking out
    of place. I also think it subtly undermines the stability of word rhythm by introducing
    divergent counter shapes and inter-letter white space. I think this is a problem
    common to all the contemporary text types I have seen that have this affectation.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    do admit that in book faces, the opening of the lower half of the \"e\" is helped
    by a reduction in the eye of the e.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is the opposite of what I
    am saying. In many types, and all that have the slanted crossbar, the lower counter
    is too open. You get better spacing and stronger internal rhythms if the crossbar
    is lower and the eye not too small. This is one of the improvements that the Dutch
    punchcutters made to the French models that they inherited."
  created: '2011-12-02 00:15:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"improvements that the Dutch punchcutters made to the French models that
    they inherited.\"\r\n\r\nI detect a bit of sarcasm there, John ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-02 00:42:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I agree with you about the slanted crossbar being less optimal. I don't
    think it's so much a matter of informality as just being a distraction. Maybe
    the thing is that it's overkill. If you are going to divide the letter, making
    it both divided and slanted is too much information.  \r\n\r\nYour idea about
    the bigger eye being better for rhythm and spacing is interesting, but I don't
    know if it's right, as so many factors are involved. If you have a smaller eye,
    it goes with a narrower letter, which also changes the rhythm..."
  created: '2011-12-02 02:28:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I believe that a dense top is what makes an \"e\" itself, and\r\ncontribute
    ideally to boumas. (Nothing to do with rhythm of course.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-02 02:40:39'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>a dense top is what makes an \"e\" itself</cite>\r\n\r\nYou mean that
    the center of gravity of the e should be high? I don't know what your boumas are
    but your perceptors don't seem to be like mine."
  created: '2011-12-02 02:52:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I mean there should be some extra darkness at the top.\r\nOf course if you
    go too far even laymen* will start to mind.\r\nHowever this does depend on the
    point size of course.\r\n\r\n* Type designers will mind much earlier, but most\r\nof
    them are too rooted in Modernism (even color)\r\nto warrant attention concerning
    this.  :-)\r\n\r\nA bouma is the overall shape of a cluster of letters,\r\nwhich
    is often a whole word, but can be a single letter.\r\nIt is the unit of reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-02 03:03:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I detect a bit of sarcasm there</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely not. I think what
    the Dutch did with roman types in the 17th and 18th Centuries remains -- at least
    in the Anglo-American world -- the least understood and appreciated advance in
    our art. I have a hard time thinking of a single change they made to the Garamond
    model from which they started that isn't a clear improvement in terms of colour
    on the page, individual letter legibility, word knitting, consistency, etc.. I
    recall Matthew Carter saying something to the effect that everything he knows
    about readability he learned from Fleischmann. Yeah, pretty much."
  created: '2011-12-02 03:16:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Actually I believe that a dense top is what makes an \"e\" itself</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/FISET_PSYCHSCIENCE_2008.pdf\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e_5799.png]</a>\r\n\r\nAcross
    all tested spatial frequencies in which the letter was identifiable, the crossbar,
    with or without adjacent areas, was the key feature enabling recognition. Now,
    one may make the case that this was due to the choice of letterform tested, that
    a Garamond <em>e</em> with its higher crossbar and tighter, denser top would produce
    different results, but a) I wouldn't bet either way on that, and b) that still
    wouldn't imply that a dense top makes every <em>e</em> itself. I suppose you may
    also makes the case that what makes an <em>e</em> itself within a bouma is somehow
    different from what makes an <em>e</em> itself in itself. But I think Mr Occam
    would like to sell you a razor."
  created: '2011-12-02 03:34:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>If you have a smaller eye, it goes with a narrower letter, which
    also changes the rhythm...</em>\r\n\r\nSeldom for the better, I think. The Latin
    script has inherited a fairly sloppy approach to relative letter width when it
    comes to the exceptional letters (those that are not directly referenced by other
    letters in the way that <em>b d p q</em> are). I reckon any type designer who
    really wants to develop a feel for relative widths should spend time working on
    Cyrillic text faces. When you have to optically coordinate the proportions of
    '\u0430 \u0432 \u0435 \u0455' so as not to disrupt those long Slavic words, a
    lot more care is needed than in the generally <em>laissez-faire</em> Latin approach
    driven more by stylistic decisions."
  created: '2011-12-02 03:47:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The bar is important because it's part of a dense top. The bar is\r\nimportant
    because there's a counter there; there doesn't have to\r\nbe a bar/counter if
    you wanted more density... :-)\r\n\r\n> that still wouldn't imply that a dense
    top makes every e itself.\r\n\r\nNever \"every\". I'm talking about a convergence\r\ntowards
    an ideal, not within a particular context.\r\n\r\n> you may also makes the case
    that what makes an e itself within a\r\n> bouma is somehow different from what
    makes an e itself in itself.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nThis is parallel to the reality
    that there's a difference between\r\ndisplay and text fonts, between legibility
    and readability, between\r\nvarious other opposing poles that I listed in my Mexico
    City talk.\r\n\r\nThis is a distinction I've been making since my \"Modules+Similars\"\r\ndiagram
    of 1999 (which I know you saw at ATypI-Boston :-).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-02 04:05:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I reckon any type designer who really wants to develop a feel for relative
    widths should spend time working on Cyrillic \"\r\n\r\nAmen"
  created: '2011-12-02 04:34:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I wonder if you are taking the wrong lesson from Cyrillic. Does roman type
    have a lot more variation in width than Cyrillic? I would think that it may be
    an advantage to have more variation in width to give more varying word images
    (or Boumas as Hrant would have it). I suspect that even color is more important
    than similar width. \r\n\r\nMonospace roman type is less readable, I think, but
    a contributing factor may be that you get a color problem with monospace roman,
    especially for lower case.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-12-02 04:39:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Cyrillic has so many sub-levels, incongruous shapes, and cuts that fitting
    is far more difficult than Latin.
  created: '2011-12-02 05:56:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> designers of text faces should be doing more\r\n> to make their wares easier
    to test and buy.\r\n\r\nAnd this, folks, is how you do it!  :-)\r\nhttp://ernestinefont.com/\r\n(All
    Nina's work.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-16 18:34:11'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: Okay, Typophile... why does my post on one thread keep showing up here, instead.
    Annoying.
  created: '2011-12-16 20:07:52'
date: '2011-11-21 23:43:16'
node_type: forum
title: Book typeface suggestions

---
