---
author:
  name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
  picture: 112329
body: "Why is the uploading of images not working here??\r\n\r\nI would be very obliged
  if this could get fixed, thank you.\r\n\r\nAlas, as we are about complaining: I
  have asked for YEARS now why umlauts (St\xF6tzner) and simplest (!) ch.s like quotes
  and dashes do not get rendered properly in headlines here.\r\nI\u2019d really like
  to get *some* answer \u2013 \r\n\r\nRegards, A. St."
comments:
- author:
    name: dust
  body: "If it only was the pictures...\r\n\r\ni've been trying to post a topic on
    the font id forum and it always gives me an internal error...\r\nThis also happened
    the last time i tried to post, several months ago...\r\n\r\nAny solutions?\r\n\r\n\r\n(sorry
    for hijacking a bit your thread, but i can't even create my own post to let the
    administrators know!!)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chimneys
    body: Exactly the same problem here
    created: '2012-10-08 18:35:08'
  created: '2011-11-29 11:44:23'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Andreas \u2014 I understand your frustration and that it seems like no one
    is paying attention. From what I understand, however, the IT guys at Punchcut
    are unable to reproduce many of the image upload issues that various users encounter.
    That makes it very hard to troubleshoot and fix. They have been trying.\r\n\r\nWhen
    all else fails, you can always place an image in a post using an HTML &lt;img&gt;
    tag. I realize that this is inconvenient. I also realize that this may not be
    so easy for folks who aren\u2019t comfortable with HTML, but I bet they\u2019re
    a small minority here. For those who don\u2019t have their own server to host
    images, there\u2019s always Flickr or a similar hosting site. \r\n\r\nNot perfect
    solutions, but ways to work around these stubborn bugs.\r\n\r\nAs for the limited
    character support in the sIFR headlines, someone at Punchcut will have to respond
    about that. I don\u2019t know what their limitations are or what guides their
    decisions with Featured Font sponsors about glyph subsetting.\r\n\r\nDust \u2014
    Your issue is completely separate. You got server error messages because your
    ID request was flagged by Akismet as spam and was sent to a moderation queue.
    I can\u2019t tell you why this happens, because I don\u2019t really understand
    the Akismet algorithm. It is imperfect at best. I wish the system returned a more
    informative message to users, but that\u2019s not an area under my control.\r\n\r\nYour
    forum message has been cleared now and should be posted, and I\u2019ve whitelisted
    your account."
  created: '2011-11-29 13:34:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Agree it's very inconvenient being unable to upload images. I posted a bug
    report <a href="http://typophile.com/node/85003">thread</a> three months ago,
    and would have appreciated some response (thanks for the background, Kent). Otherwise
    there's little point reporting things. I realise this is a volunteer-run site,
    but several of us have donated in the past and it's not clear why we should do
    so again.
  created: '2011-11-29 16:18:27'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Kentlew, thank you for answering. So I\u2019m still in the hope of things
    getting better \u2026 at least."
  created: '2011-11-29 22:35:38'
- author:
    name: Carleen Moreno
  body: "Hi guys, \r\n\r\nThanks for your patience and sorry for the delay on a solution.
    At the moment I'm currently working on a resolution and it and will keep you posted.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again,\r\nRhett\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-29 23:32:21'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I suspect the sIFR thing is a coding mismatch; a sink expecting UTF-8 is getting
    ISO-8859-1 instead.
  created: '2011-11-30 20:31:31'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/t3_4829.jpg]\r\n\r\nI reproduced the
    issue in both Firefox 8.0 and IE 9 on Windows7. The problem seems to be related
    to the size of the image. I don't know if this pertains to the pixel dimensions
    or the amount of data. The original jpg failed with the 500 error, but when I
    re-saved it, the upload worked. I tried jpg, png, gif; the image format didn't
    seem to matter. \r\n\r\n<cite>They have been trying.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you suggesting
    that they're simply incompetent?\r\n\r\nI also reproduced this issue, with a different
    image in Safari 5.1.2."
  created: '2011-12-01 15:30:50'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "I apologize for being snarky. One possibility is that the Flash upload component
    depends upon a component that Punchcut didn't create in-house. That would actually
    be likely I think for this kind of site. \r\n\r\nWIN 11,1,102,55 on Safari 8\r\nWIN
    10,3,183,7 on IE 9 \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-01 16:28:39'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Are you suggesting that they're simply incompetent?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo.
    I was trying to convey that the pleas have not simply been ignored.\r\n\r\nI doubt
    the issue is pixel dimensions, since there are plenty of images still being uploaded
    by users that push the pixel size boundaries.\r\n\r\nThe default maximum file
    size per upload is 1 MB. I thought that was stated somewhere, but perhaps users
    aren\u2019t aware. (But why would someone be uploading a >1MB file anyway?)  Do
    you recall how large your original file was, Carl?\r\n\r\nI did just notice a
    setting in the Admin section that Drupal annotates with \u201CThe default maximum
    size of all files a user can have on the site.\u201D I wonder if users who are
    having the upload issue are frequent posters and have surpassed this \u201Clifetime\u201D
    limit?\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think that would explain all cases, but I\u2019ll check
    with Rhett and the guys and see if maybe we should change that setting.\r\n\r\nI
    seem to recall that there are two separate and perhaps unrelated (or maybe not)
    issues \u2014 one is uploading and inserting images in a comment; the other is
    uploading and attaching files (especially PDFs) in an initial post. I think Andreas\u2019
    latest frustration was triggered by the former, while Ben was having problems
    with the latter (or maybe both?).\r\n\r\nI have always suspected that the Flash
    uploader might be a culprit in the current configuration, but I don\u2019t know
    enough about Drupal."
  created: '2011-12-01 22:24:55'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> why would someone be uploading a >1MB file \r\n\r\nSometimes graphic files
    can be much larger than you'd expect. Have you asked folks to send their troublesome
    photos to you by email? That way you could check the file size and also see if
    you're able to reproduce their upload problems.\r\n\r\n(I've never had any problems
    posting photos here.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-01 23:47:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'I just generated a 268K jpg screen grab (nothing of great interest) that
    returned onHTTPError: 500. I then saved at 194K and the same.  I then reduced
    to 105K and it went through. '
  created: '2011-12-02 00:45:12'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "More precisely here one of the files\r\n<code>\r\n-rw-r--r--@ 1 boyer  staff
    \ 193585  1 Dec 19:42 geo4.jpg\r\n</code>\r\nand here is the message\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/message_5682.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-02 00:52:17'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "As for the first question, if I tell Safari that the encoding is Latin1,
    I see this when I look at http://typophile.com/user/17347\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/umlauts_4259.jpg]\r\n\r\nTitle
    ok, but not the rest, of course..."
  created: '2011-12-02 01:22:26'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tumblr_lu1gu0It8l1r3l99m_4804.jpg]\r\n<cite>Do
    you recall how large your original file was, Carl?</cite> \r\n\r\nThe 'normal'
    sized file I tested varied depending on the file format, but all versions were
    less than 200KB. The above image is 102KB, and it works. I tried another jpg which
    is 132KB and it causes the error. I have a 117KB image that also would have uploaded.
    So, the magic limit seems to be 117KB > x > 132KB. \r\n\r\nThis was at home on
    Mac OS 10.7.2, FireFox 8.0.1, Flash MAC 11,1,102,55. "
  created: '2011-12-02 01:39:05'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "1MB is a reasonable limit for images. If its a web-friendly format like jpg/png/gif,
    1MB would typically be too large for useful display. That said, I use a Wiki at
    work, which provides a really cool 'thumbnail' option. The article gets a small,
    re-sized image and a link is auto-generated to load the full file. That kind of
    scheme would be ideal for Typophile because users sometimes want to share minute
    details. It is a community of design wonks, after all. \r\n\r\nThis might be an
    opportunity to explore different uploader options. Perhaps there's something commonly
    used with Drupal with similar functionality that doesn't depend on Flash.\r\n\r\nHot-linking,
    or whatever the web kids call it, is wrong because the content is not contained.
    Typophiles refer to old content much more often than other web communities. If
    a pertinent image goes missing from an archived thread, the value could be lost.
    It might not seem obvious if you ignore other discussion sites, but the signal-to-noise
    ratio is probably higher here than any other site I visit. \r\n\r\nI'm not even
    sure I'm a true Typophile--I just find John Hudson and Hrant's banter interesting."
  created: '2011-12-02 02:00:40'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I know absolutely nothing of Flash but I can at least use the Safari inspector
    to look at what is happening. I simply modified the string at the line beginning
    with txt=Andreas and replaced what was encoding St\xF6tzner by the corresponding
    utf-8 string, and here is the display: the title is fine, the full name also.
    It just seems the string in the flashvars needs to be adjusted.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/title_5646.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-02 02:12:12'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: If a new image uploading setup is going to be installed, I hope it's one that
    can deal with spaces in the filenames.
  created: '2011-12-02 02:51:45'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "My guess is that the right string is <code>Andreas%20St%C3%B6tzner</code>,
    that I obtained with <code>encodeURI('Andreas St\xF6tzner')</code> in the Safari
    inspector, and that flash 10.2 displays correctly on my MacBook Pro (with Safari
    5.0.6 on OS X 10.5.8)"
  created: '2011-12-02 22:08:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: File names need to have no spaces or non-standard ascii glyphs.  I have noticed
    a change in file sizes accepted by Typophile, though.  It used to be any file
    less than 550 pixels wide would upload.  Now, there appears to be a vertical limit
    as well.  Perhaps there is a total file size limitation as well? How many K that
    is?  I don't know.  I have noticed some problems with higher resolution jpegs
    or mostly PNG files.
  created: '2011-12-02 22:27:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Non-standard ASCII? *blink* *blink* Quite certain this is an oxymoron. Has
    to be meaning 'outside the ASCII subset of alphanumerics, period and underscore
    [A-Za-z0-9._]'. That subset is file system safe as far as I can tell.
  created: '2011-12-02 23:07:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry to be the \"moron\", T\xE9, at least I am not also an ox. ;-P \r\nI
    was just too lazy to type: \" 'outside the ASCII subset of alphanumerics, period
    and underscore [A-Za-z0-9._]'\"\r\n\r\nYou know what I meant.  The biggest bugaboo
    is the % sign which gets placed by default when the space key is typed."
  created: '2011-12-02 23:14:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'But my point is that in 2011 we should have uploading programming sophisticated
    enough to convert submitted filenames into workable ones rather than just failing. '
  created: '2011-12-03 02:37:01'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '''Oxymoron'' doesn''t mean ''contradiction in terms''? Oh well... live and
    learn. Or was it learn and live? *looks blearily into monitor* I''ll think about
    it sometime later...'
  created: '2011-12-03 14:17:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"'Oxymoron' doesn't mean 'contradiction in terms'?\"\r\n\r\nOf course it
    does.  Forgive my errant attempt at humor."
  created: '2011-12-03 14:54:49'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "The \"onHTTPError: 500\" is different than the problem with spaces or UTF-8
    characters in the file name. The latter results in: \"Could not copy image. Error\".
    \r\n\r\n<cite>But my point is that in 2011 we should have uploading programming
    sophisticated enough to convert submitted filenames into workable ones rather
    than just failing.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly.The latter issue reminds me of a statement
    made within Flickr's API documentation. It says something like \"The Flickr API
    expects all data to be UTF-8 encoded\" in giant letters. This is the baseline/expected
    behavior for the web circa 2011. A Chinese type designer should be able to name
    their files in Chinese. The majority of human beings do not speak English, and
    modern type design potentially involves all written language. So, it seems to
    me that Typophile should be able to handle this stuff. Again, I'm not suggesting
    that Punchcut is capable of creating an uploader. They just need to find/license
    one that works properly for their site and implement it. "
  created: '2011-12-03 22:53:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: No worries, @dezcom. I happened to be rather sleepy at that time, hence that
    bleary look.
  created: '2011-12-04 10:50:11'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I think I have the solution for titles: the string sent to flash in the flashvars
    is currently built with <code>escape</code> which does not encode utf-8 characters
    the way flash is expecting them. This happens at line 561 of the file http://typophile.com/files/js/js_906ebf552a4d48f32d6b19cd75bded6f.js
    in the definition of the function <code>toFlashvarsString</code>. In order to
    change as little as possible the code, I would simply replace <code>escape</code>
    with <code>escape_utf8</code> at line 561 and define <code>escape_utf8</code>
    as follows:\r\n<PRE>\r\n// encodings for lower characters  returned by escape\r\n//
    \   that differ from those returned by encodeURI\r\nfunction nkch(c)\r\n{\r\n
    \ var nkc = {};\r\n  nkc[\"~\"]=\"%7E\"; nkc[\"!\"]=\"%21\"; nkc[\"'\"]=\"%27\";\r\n
    \ nkc[\"(\"]=\"%28\"; nkc[\")\"]=\"%29\"; nkc[\"#\"]=\"%23\";\r\n  nkc[\"$\"]=\"%24\";
    nkc[\"&\"]=\"%26\"; nkc[\",\"]=\"%2C\";\r\n  nkc[\":\"]=\"%3A\"; nkc[\";\"]=\"%3B\";
    nkc[\"=\"]=\"%3D\";\r\n  nkc[\"?\"]=\"%3F\";                  return nkc[c];\r\n}\r\n\r\n//
    Same as escape for lower characters (from 1 to 127)\r\n// Same as encodeURI above
    127\r\nfunction escape_utf8(s)\r\n{\r\n  rexp=/~|!|'|\\(|\\)|#|\\$|&|,|:|;|=|\\?/g
    ;\r\n  return encodeURI(s).replace(rexp, nkch);\r\n}\r\n</PRE>\r\nThe behaviour
    should stay unchanged on characters from 1 to 127.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-04 12:47:02'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is a better comment and a more compact code for <code>nkch</code>\r\n<PRE>\r\n//
    escape's encodings for lower characters\r\n//    that are left unencoded by encodeURI\r\nfunction
    nkch(c){ nkc= {\"~\":\"%7E\", \"!\":\"%21\", \"'\":\"%27\",\r\n  \"(\":\"%28\",
    \")\":\"%29\", \"#\":\"%23\", \"$\":\"%24\", \"&\":\"%26\",\r\n  \",\":\"%2C\",
    \":\":\"%3A\", \";\":\"%3B\", \"=\":\"%3D\", \"?\":\"%3F\"};\r\n  return nkc[c];\r\n}\r\n</PRE>"
  created: '2011-12-04 16:52:16'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'I just tried to find out the maximum size accepted; a file with 132117 bytes
    causes the error; another one with 128246 does not. I searched the web and found
    that typophiles are far from being the only ones to experience that error 500
    problem; I also found one analyst that solved a case that (at least superficially)
    seems to match ours:  <a href="http://montenasoft.com/en/blog/500-internal-server-error-while-uploading-files-bigger-then-100kb-modfcgid-problem"><strong>MaxRequestLen
    (131072)</strong></a>;  his maximum was 131072 bytes. I gather from his comment
    and others'' that the cause may not be easy to pinpoint. '
  created: '2011-12-07 22:37:08'
- author:
    name: fvilanakis
    picture: 123289
  body: "Sorry to post my message in this thread, but I have the same problem with
    Dust (start of topic): \r\nI can't post any new topics, I can only comment on
    existing ones.\r\n\r\nEvery time I try to create a new topic (in any forum) it
    fails with:\r\n<blockquote>500 Internal Server Error\r\n\r\nThe server encountered
    an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request.\r\n\r\nPlease
    contact the server administrator, itadmin@punchcut.com and inform them of the
    time the error occurred, and anything you might have done that may have caused
    the error.\r\n\r\nMore information about this error may be available in the server
    error log.\r\nApache Server at typophile.com Port 80</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAm I
    black-listed too as a spammer?\r\n\r\n\r\nPS1: I also get the same error when
    I click on [Preview] of new topic creation.\r\nPS2: If this is the case (blacklisted)
    there should be at least a different.more informative message and a different
    e-mail to handle these cases"
  created: '2011-12-08 01:18:50'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Fivos \u2014\r\n\r\nYes, your announcement did get sent to the spam moderation
    queue. I don\u2019t know why the spam engine picks some legitimate posts from
    some established users to flag. \r\n\r\nYour latest Build thread has been approved,
    and I\u2019ve whitelisted your account now so hopefully you won\u2019t encounter
    this problem in the future.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll talk to the Punchcut IT guys, but
    they may not have easy access to setting the messages when Akismet flags spam."
  created: '2011-12-08 13:43:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Meanwhile, I know Rhett is working on the image upload issue. I pointed him
    to Michel\u2019s latest link, which looks promising. \r\n\r\nThanks for your continued
    patience."
  created: '2011-12-08 13:45:40'
- author:
    name: fvilanakis
    picture: 123289
  body: "Kent -\r\nthanks for whitelisted my account :)\r\nFivos"
  created: '2011-12-08 14:12:33'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Beautiful picture of typeface! \r\nThis is the one Christian Dior uses (slightly
    changed, made the \u2018h\u2019 higher) as logo typeface, isn\u2019t it?\r\nIt\u2019s
    a case that I have on my desktop a picture of an old perfume bottle (it\u2019s
    in the Dior book, Collection Rolf Heyne) and I see the character almost identic.\r\nVery
    nice!\r\nDid you make a digital version of it?\r\n\r\nFor uploading pictures I
    use often GIFs that are smaller and permit greater picture measures.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2011-12-21 08:05:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: What is the HTML syntax for inserting a picture?
  created: '2012-11-18 17:15:08'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/img link_3767.png]\r\n\r\nImage upload
    is working fine for me."
  created: '2012-11-18 17:21:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: What if its a picture on my HD?
  created: '2012-11-18 18:01:52'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Hard Drive?\r\n\r\nYou can't really link to an image on your own pc unless
    you have that pc set up as a server.\r\n\r\nJust upload it to an image hosting
    service like file den or image shack."
  created: '2012-11-19 01:15:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I managed to upload an image earlier today, though IE9 wouldn't do it and
    I had to switch to Chrome (Firefox doesn't work either AFAIK). Might be worth
    trying other browsers, Chris.
  created: '2012-11-19 01:22:45'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Chris, is there any chance you can change the title of <a href="http://typophile.com/node/98028">this
    thread</a> from "A question for Berk Williams" to "A question for William Berkson"
    ?  Or forward this request on to someone who can?  It wold be much appreciated.
  created: '2012-11-19 02:23:32'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "On a similar note, if someone could see a way to stop all of my new posts
    from getting flagged as spam, I'd appreciate it.  This has been happening to all
    my new thread attempts in all forums for several months now, and I'm not having
    any luck trying to report it through (what I assume are) the official channels...\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-19 03:41:32'
date: '2011-11-29 10:45:13'
node_type: forum
title: 'Admins, PLEASE: image upload'

---
