---
author:
  name: jodb
  picture: 109555
body: "\r\nI am looking for definition(s) of, and reliable sources for the word 'ductus'
  (if possible with annotated images).\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "[I posted the following response on the ATypI e-mail list, but figured I'd
    repeat it here for the sake of future reference.]\r\n\r\nI'm glad you asked this
    question, as I've seen the term used to describe different things in the context
    of typography, writing, letterform design, etc.\r\n\r\n1) Some people use ductus
    to refer to the flaring or \"reverse entasis\" in the stokes of a letter.\r\n\r\n2)
    I've also seen people use ductus to refer to the kind of meta-design of a letter
    \u2013 its basic underlying structure. For example, in this sense of the word,
    a single-storey g and a double-storey g represent the same character, but have
    a different ductus. Other people describe this kind of basic construction of a
    letter as its \"topology\", a term which I would be more inclined to use.\r\n\r\n3)
    Finally, I've also seen ductus used as a parallel to how the term is used in the
    context of spoken language \u2013 to refer to the unique characteristics of flow,
    speed, direction, and tone of written text. In this sense of the word, it could
    be said that variations in ductus are what allow you to identify people by their
    handwriting.\r\n\r\nWith all that in mind, it seems that ductus is a commonly
    confused/confusing term, so one would be advised to use it cautiously. Especially
    because the varying interpretations are so closely related, it is easy to imagine
    a misunderstanding of any statements which use the term."
  created: '2011-12-04 20:50:38'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "The Wikipedia article on <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palaeography\">Palaeography</a>
    contains this passage: \"Their efforts were mainly directed at reconstructing
    'the ductus' \u2014 the movement of the pen in forming the letter\" and cites
    the New Encyclopaedia New York.\r\n\r\nHere at Typophile \"ductus\" usually seems
    to mean the pen angle implied by the stress of a face's chirographic elements,
    though there is the occasional focus on the imagined pen path when it is in question."
  created: '2011-12-04 23:09:57'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "As I have understood it over the last thirty years as a lettering artist
    \"ductus\" referred to direction and sequence in the formation of the letter.
    Simple as that.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-09 01:31:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Michael, does it include the angle of the pen? The writing instrument?
  created: '2011-12-09 04:08:00'
- author:
    name: SciTechEngMath
  body: '"Medieval Calligraphy: Its History and Technique" by Marc Drogin defines
    ductus as "the direction and sequence of each stroke." He does not elaborate as
    to whether or not that specifically includes the pen angle or type.'
  created: '2011-12-09 04:39:07'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Reasonable question William... it always, for me, was the above. Actually
    different tools each use different direction and sequence, and sometimes the ductus
    will change to achieve different results and accommodate the strengths/weaknesses
    of the tool and handler. The first one shows the possible effects ductus change
    can have. More confused than before :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eg_5787.png]\r\n\r\nFirst
    two, brush. Second, traditional chisel edged pen. Third, ruling pen."
  created: '2011-12-09 14:54:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Latin calligraphy typically maintains a constant pen angle except for an
    occasional correction.  Pushed vs pulled strokes also have an affect.  Greek is
    much more free than Latin.\r\n\r\n@Michael, I know Ruling Pen, Ruling Pen is a
    friend of mine-- that third one is no Ruling Pen  ;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rulingpen_3624.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-09 15:15:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yep, it bee!\r\n\r\nHeld to the side of point and then the thicks were added
    in a restrained and gradual manner. Here's the little miscreant now :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ruler_5168.png]"
  created: '2011-12-09 16:18:59'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nothing I love more than wielding a\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rp_4606.png]\r\n\r\nBut
    the more I use it I know\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fat_5934.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2011-12-09 16:29:12'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ Chris\r\n\r\nYou know those Greeks... fast and loose :-)\r\n\r\nOPA!!!!!!!!"
  created: '2011-12-09 16:32:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>Latin calligraphy typically maintains a constant pen angle except
    for an occasional correction.</em>\r\n\r\nExcepting, of course, those styles that
    are characterised by rotation as a feature, notably the Flemish mannerist hands.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nBill:
    <em>...does [ductus] include the angle of the pen? The writing instrument?</em>\r\n\r\nTypically
    not in the usage of the term by calligraphers, palaeographers and other writing
    experts. Ductus refers to the movements and their sequence. But the same ductus
    written with a different tool or the same tool held at a different angle results
    in a different style of writing."
  created: '2011-12-09 18:17:41'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Actually John, manipulation/angle shifting/modulation/pressure-release etc.
    go back to Ugar "scribing" and permeates the development of the Latin alphabet.
  created: '2011-12-09 19:12:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Michael, I understood Chris' comment to be specifically about 'calligraphy',
    and wanted to point out the specific role of rotation in at least one historical
    style. As you say, it and other manipulations are found throughout the development
    of Latin writing, but in the case of Flemish mannerist calligraphy rotation is
    the key or definitive manipulation that gives the style its particular flavour.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not familiar with the term 'Ugar'. Can you explain what this means?"
  created: '2011-12-09 20:20:30'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Sorry John... when I went back to put the quotes in around scribing I must
    have deleted IT in Ugarit.  Just saw that.  Whether the forms were wedged or manipulated
    with the stylus it set a precedent :-)
  created: '2011-12-09 20:38:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Michael\r\nHow do you get that fuzzy texture with a ruling pen?  I spent
    hours trying to make a clean, even, sharp line ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-09 22:28:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I understood Chris' comment to be specifically about 'calligraphy',\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    John, that is what I meant.  I was not familiar with the \"Flemish mannerist hands\"
    you spoke of.  Do you have good examples to post?"
  created: '2011-12-09 22:31:31'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">typerror \r\n\r\nThe three examples above\u2014Brush, chisel & ruling pen
    are very cool. Great hand.\r\n\r\nIs there any way to get that effect (ruling
    pen example) using software, or applying some type of filter in Illustrator?\r\n\r\nI
    would love to simulate and apply that look to a script I'm designing.\r\n\r\nThanks
    in advance.\r\n\r\nPS\u2014does anyone else know of of any combination of tools
    that can get that effect?"
  created: '2011-12-09 22:47:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ Chris, as I said the modulation was added, the ductus is in tact. I use
    rapidographs and smooth paper for clean lines (or the computer). And as to John...
    he committed no error, just that I wanted it noted that the slight of hand goes
    back thousands of years.\r\n\r\n@ Alex... not that I know of. I am still working
    in ink. I do the digital work one BCP at a time. See Letraset Katytude."
  created: '2011-12-09 23:23:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Alex, if you use one of the canned Adobe filters, it will look like one of
    the canned Adobe filters.
  created: '2011-12-09 23:48:29'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">dezcom\u2014I know and I agree with you. But someone may be aware of several
    techniques, combined together,  that can simulate something like that effect.
    It would be a good starting point.\r\n\r\nAnyone? Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-10 00:38:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, the quality of this image isn't great, but here is <a href=\"http://tiro.com/John/JVdV.jpg\">an
    example of writing</a> by the great Flemish writing master Jan Van den Velde.
    The most obvious examples of rotation are found in the heaviest strokes and their
    transitions from thinner strokes, but rotation is found throughout the style;
    note what happens in the lowercase <em>d</em> for example.\r\n\r\ncf. Noordzij's
    <em>The Stroke</em> pp.23\u201326, and <em>Letterletter</em> pp.8 & 153\u2013154
    (page 8 has a very helpful diagram of the rotation in the mannerist <em>d.</em>)"
  created: '2011-12-10 03:16:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> permeates the development of the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nNot anymore.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-10 03:33:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, John!\r\nIt looks as though they endeavored to never cross over in
    a stroke.  This kind of radial pivot is similar in some ways to some Greek I have
    seen but kind of backwards in stress to it.  The written Greek I have seen is
    not nearly so crisp, though.  Perhaps the Greeks were not as fond of the regular
    glyph or sub-glyph height. ;-)  \r\nThis sample shows a very chiseled sharp edge
    that makes a clean line.  That took some mighty skill to master! Now you have
    me hooked!  I have to dig into this and find more, now :-)\r\n\r\nI used to watch
    my grandmother write with great wonderment because of her arm and wrist movement.
    She seemed to pivot about her elbow as if it were a moving compass for certain
    curved strokes but her elbow would jut out at a right angle for the bolder horizontal
    straights.  She would smile and say to me in a whisper, \"Don't write with your
    fingers like your mother [her daughter] learned in American school.\"  Actually,
    watching \u03B3\u03B9\u03B1 \u03B3\u03B9\u03B1 cooking and rolling grape leaves
    had the same flourished, sure motions of the arm as in writing.  She may have
    talked with her hands, but wrote with her arms.\r\n\r\nThanks, John.  I just looked
    at Noordij again.  I see what you mean!\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2011-12-10 04:30:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If you get a chance, Chris, try to find a copy of Van den Velde's <em>Deliciae.</em>
    It was originally published in 1605 (engraved plates based on his written exemplars).
    I have an engraved facsimile produced by Noordzij. It is incredibly good.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5d/Vandenvelde2.jpg\">Here's
    another example.</a>\r\n\r\nClaude Mediavilla's big book on calligraphy is the
    only one I can think of off hand that devotes much attention to this style."
  created: '2011-12-10 06:52:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mediavilla's book itself deserves much attention - it brings so much together.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-10 06:58:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks John & Hrant!  I'll put it on my Christmas list :-)
  created: '2011-12-10 07:47:35'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Chris \u2014 \r\n\r\nWhat might not have been evident from Michael\u2019s
    response is that when using a ruling pen for this kind of calligraphy, it is manipulated
    in pretty much the exact opposite way from what it was designed for and how you\u2019re
    accustomed to using it. ;-)\r\n\r\nInstead of ruling in a direction parallel to
    the blades to get an even, consistent-width line, for lettering like this you
    generally run the broad edge of the blades against the paper and work more *against*
    the direction of the blades, dragging across the page. Varying the angle of the
    ruling pen in relation to the surface, more vertical or more shallow, will bring
    more or less blade surface in contact and yield variations in width. \r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t know how you held your ruling pen when drafting. I know many people
    held it with a more or less normal pen grip. But I believe most letterers use
    a grip more akin to how you would hold a steak knife. This allows a great range
    of whole-arm movement for angling and rotating.\r\n\r\n(And I think most letterers
    grind down the tips of the blades, so they aren\u2019t so sharp and won\u2019t
    catch on the page.)\r\n\r\nIf the paper is cold pressed or rough, you get textured
    edge effects like in Michael\u2019s \u201Cruling pen\u201D example. If the paper
    is smooth, you generally get cleaner edges, as in the \u201CScio me\u201D example
    (the subtler edge effect there looks more like a result of absorbancy than surface
    texture).\r\n\r\nMichael will correct me if I\u2019ve made any errors in my description."
  created: '2011-12-10 13:43:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Kent! Now I get it!\r\n\r\nMy grip was a bit more like dart throwing
    but facing down. I always held my ruling pen perfectly vertical in the tips of
    my fingers with my pinky out as a brace on the parallel-edge.  Any angle other
    than vertical would cause line weight to vary and bad looking endings.\r\nI will
    have to watch Michael in action some day--it might make me cringe though ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-10 15:25:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "P22 Peanut was done with a ruling pen Chris... do not cringe too badly.\r\n\r\nModulation
    in 2010, who would have thunk it Hrant?  Oh, and and then there is FBPouty, P22Pooper
    Black, Shibumi, Sweepy, Lucilee, Monumental and Sting! Seems to appeal to several
    type designers that have appropriated two of my faces."
  created: '2011-12-12 21:43:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FYI, I love Sangue. But I don't pretend it's readable.\r\nAnd oh, \"modulation\"
    is a lousy term here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-12 22:58:02'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "It may be because you are unfamiliar with it... just like you use chirography
    instead of calligraphy, which I, and most, consider the proper term! Oh, that's
    right you took a course one time :-) I bow to your all encompassing knowledge!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-12 23:54:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chirography and calligraphy don't mean the same thing; I can explain it to
    you\r\nif you convince me doing so would be worth the effort. As for \"modulation\",\r\nthe
    problem is it already has at least two meanings in the context of type, so it's\r\ncounterproductive
    to add any possible meaning of \"ductus\" to it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-13 01:37:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As I understand the two terms, \"Chirography\" includes all written by hand
    forms regardless of medium, professionalism, or intent. So even my chicken-scratch
    handwriting of a grocery store list qualifies--and it ain't pretty :-)\r\n\r\n\"Calligraphy\"
    is \"the art of beautiful writing\" and what Hermann Zapf is a practitioner of.
    Calligraphy implies at least the attempt to make the writing look aesthetically
    pleasing and requires the skill and practice of a trained hand."
  created: '2011-12-13 03:00:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: That's right, Chris. Chirography is just a fancy Greek-derived word for handwriting.
    Calligraphy is a subcategory of chirography. The term chirography is useful because
    it obliges one to consider all the cultural aspects of literacy, not just calligraphy,
    which has different significance at different times and places. I'm interested
    in professional text production, for instance, which in scribal cultures involves
    copyists whose work is typically distinguished, in those cultures, from the work
    of calligraphers.
  created: '2011-12-13 04:00:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I've got to  \u03C7\u03AD\u03C1\u03B9 it to you on that one, John ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-13 05:09:56'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: The differing level of knowledge between professionals is incredible here.
    :-)
  created: '2011-12-13 05:38:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: By the way, on the difference between scribal hand and calligraphy, it is
    interesting that in illuminated texts a different person often did the text and
    illumination. The text being a more a matter of mastering uniformity and clarity,
    like type, and the illumination being more a matter of decorative flair and variety.
  created: '2011-12-13 06:27:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The differing level of knowledge between professionals is incredible
    here\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nMore like different flavors of knowledge."
  created: '2011-12-13 06:47:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"differing level of knowledge \"\r\n\r\nKinda like Yoda and R2D2? :-)"
  created: '2011-12-13 14:44:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and the illumination being more a matter of decorative flair ...\"\r\n\r\n\r\nAhhh,
    you mean Artistes, Bill? ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-13 14:46:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Artistes\r\n\r\nWell, I don't know, you raise an interesting question. There
    is a certain discipline and restraint involved in good scribal hands, but some
    can be quite beautiful, and others not so much. Perhaps I should have said that
    the constraints on the scribe are more narrow, and the latitude for decoration
    more for the illuminator. Whatever the difference in the two skills or arts, there
    was enough of a difference that there were specialists in each area. "
  created: '2011-12-13 16:52:32'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "First off Hrant... no one was trying to add or subtract meaning from ductus
    with the term modulation. Pure and simple ductus: direction and sequence. Modulation
    is just an additional factor... Arthur Baker, in his \"illuminations,\" deals
    with the modulations/manipulations in the scribal traditions. Marc Drogin and
    countless others have also dealt with it. Secondly, no one was talking type, we
    were talking calligraphy! Derivations of calligraphy that end up in typographic
    form is a whole different bag of worms.\r\n\r\n@ John. \"copyists\" seems almost
    pejorative to me... as \"those copyists\" had very high levels of facility. Maybe
    scribe would be more appropriate. Otherwise you end up with a human Xerox.\r\n\r\n@
    William... the division of labor in the manuscripts was not as simple as you make
    it. There were MANY involved in the production, all experts in different \"talents.\r\n\r\nSee
    if there are any representations of Mira Calligraphiae Monumenta, Georg Bocskay/Joris
    Hoefnagel, on line and tell me Georg was a copyist. 1561 I think."
  created: '2011-12-13 17:39:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Michael, I wasn't simplifying anything, I was just saying there was a division
    of labor between different specialists, and I had read of those two. What are
    the "many" specialties involved?
  created: '2011-12-13 18:00:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, Michael, how do we know that different people did the illumination
    and the calligraphy?\r\n\r\nI would imagine that just as in subsequent centuries,
    the work may have been divided any which way, contingent on circumstance.\r\n\r\nI
    suspect that if an illuminator had created a title page with a small amount of
    text, he might have been inclined to do the whole page, including the text. \r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    if a page only had one or two decorated initials, then the scribe churning out
    the body text may have also been allowed to take a crack at the initials.\r\n\r\nThis
    presupposes a model of apprenticeship in which one starts mixing ink as a young
    lad, progressing to doing plain old transcription, then to full-fledged gold-leaf
    pictorial representation. With a \u201Cmasterpiece\u201D required at each step
    along the way. So all illuminators would have been more than capable scribes.\r\n\r\nAnd
    you have to wonder whether economic conditions would have been able to support
    a specialist illuminator at all times in all scriptoria, without having him also
    pitch in with more mundane scribeling."
  created: '2011-12-13 18:21:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> no one was talking type\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but on Typophile most of us are,
    and all of us are supposed to be.\r\nBTW, worms is right.\r\n\r\n> Otherwise you
    end up with a human Xerox.\r\n\r\nYup. In fact many scribes were convicts who
    took shelter in the Church.\r\nAnd a pretty lousy Xerox since mistakes were rife
    (and that's one reason\r\nprinting is so much better).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-13 18:22:40'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No, no no William. Not a problem. It was not a castigation. Simple information.
    There were many people involved. Binders, colorists, paper/vellum makers, gilders,
    etc. It was one big happy monastery. :-)  I love the Xerox commercial because
    it simplifies it for those of generations far removed.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2OP_idrI1U&feature=results_main&playnext=1&list=PL65AD21AAE237971C\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2011-12-13 18:23:23'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hmmm\r\n\r\nI seem to remember posts by you dealing with calligraphy, Hrant.\r\n\r\nMust
    be situational ethics for you!"
  created: '2011-12-13 18:38:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Bill, Michael, how do we know that different people did the illumination
    and the calligraphy?\r\n\r\nRead that some of the illuminators have been identified,
    and there are partially done MSS that reveal the production process, with the
    script first, with blank spaces planned for initials, illuminations. Initial sketches
    for illumination, etc. Hey I read it on the internet\u2014has to be true, right
    :) "
  created: '2011-12-13 18:41:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Illuminators even worked well into post Gutenberg times illuminating the printed
    books by hand.
  created: '2011-12-13 18:46:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Micheal, everybody makes mistakes; some of us are more gracious about admitting
    it.\r\n\r\nI hope you now understand the difference between chirography and calligraphy.\r\nAnd
    to elaborate by own viewpoint: the latter is awesome, in this age especially\r\nwhen
    it represents art, ignoring legibility; the former is generally cloying in type,\r\nand
    as a rule leads to lower readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-13 18:50:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Yup. In fact many scribes were convicts who took shelter in the Church.\"\r\n\r\nAnecdotal."
  created: '2011-12-13 18:55:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I did not make any mistakes Harnt.  \r\n\r\nSpell my name right and I will
    accord you the same courtesy."
  created: '2011-12-13 18:59:56'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<em>More like different flavors of knowledge.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that's it!
    Each person having heir own niche.\r\n\r\nConcerning modulation: what is the precise
    definition. I have looked it up in the dictionary, and have a vague idea of how
    it relates to letters, but what's the specifics? Is it just differences in thickness?
    Rotation of the pen? I mainly \"sculpt\" all my letters on the computer, so such
    a simple term is still not totally clear to me."
  created: '2011-12-13 19:13:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That is because it is not so simple of a term.  It opens cans of worms and
    differences of opinion.
  created: '2011-12-13 19:16:25'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Just like in music. In calligraphy it is variation in pressure, angle, ink
    flow, etc. All come together to create a more nuanced form.
  created: '2011-12-13 19:22:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Anecdotal.\r\n\r\nDocumented.\r\n\r\nAs for your mistakes - just be a man
    and admit them:\r\n- \"you use chirography instead of calligraphy\"\r\n- \"most
    consider [calligraphy] the proper term\"\r\n\r\nI'm sorry for misspelling your
    name. I never do that intentionally.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> modulation: what is the
    precise definition\r\n\r\nIn <em>type</em> I've seen two definitions:\r\n- The
    differentiation of thick and thin parts of letters.\r\n- The thinning of joints
    to counteract visual and/or mechanical \"clotting\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-13 19:22:47'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Just be a man\"\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n\"documented\"\r\n\r\n1 in how many?
    You are reaching for straws Hrant."
  created: '2011-12-13 19:25:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Go paint something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-13 19:29:57'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No factual retort? Your mistake Hrant... I do not paint. I can feel your
    anger building :-)\r\n\r\n:-("
  created: '2011-12-13 19:41:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026there are partially done MSS that reveal the production process,
    with the script first, with blank spaces planned for initials, illuminations.
    </em>\r\n\r\nThat is of course the logical workflow\u2014whether one, two, or
    many are involved."
  created: '2011-12-13 19:43:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Calligraphy is painting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-13 19:45:49'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: You are so misinformed; and for the first time, in all of our confrontations,
    it points out your ignorance, simplistic view, and lack of understanding.
  created: '2011-12-13 20:01:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Michael: <em>\"copyists\" seems almost pejorative to me... as \"those copyists\"
    had very high levels of facility. Maybe scribe would be more appropriate.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    definitely don't mean copyist to be pejorative: it is simply descriptive of a
    particular job within a scribal culture. Scribe is a generic term that covers
    copyists, secretaries, anamuenses. Depending on the place, time and particular
    circumstances, the task of a copyist -- and the criteria by which his or her work
    is judged -- may involve producing a fair copy in a discretionary style, or it
    might involve producing a copy in a particular regional style that differs from
    the original, or it might involve producing a copy that reproduces the appearance
    of the original very closely. As you say, these copyists tended to have very high
    levels of facility, although I've also seen a lot of jobbing work that shows signs
    of haste.\r\n\r\nMy point is that scribal cultures involve various modes of text
    production which is doesn't make sense to lump into a single category as 'calligraphy'
    -- especially not when those cultures have their own classification of calligraphy
    that excludes most writing however high the facility of the scribe. Hence 'chirography'."
  created: '2011-12-13 21:01:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: No problem John... I think the problem is that Hrant uses the term to piss
    me and others off (his MO), instead of using it in a less confrontational (passive/aggressive)
    way.
  created: '2011-12-13 21:49:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bri\xE4n, modulation refers to the variation in the thickness of lines that
    make up a letter. A truly monoline letter, in which all the lines are the same
    thickness, would be the only kind without modulation. In practice, due to the
    needs of optical compensation, accounting for ink or other media factors, etc.,
    even letters that try to appear monoline require modulation.\r\n\r\nIn writing,
    different tools and the varying ways in which they are used produce characteristic
    modulation patterns, i.e. characteristic arrangements of thinner and thicker lines
    and transitions between them. Since almost all typographies derive originally
    from written forms, there tend to be characteristic modulation patterns in typographic
    letters that echo written forms and, hence, particular tools. Hence, the renaissance
    roman and italic types have modulation patterns that echo contemporary humanist
    book and chancery hands as written with a broad nib pen held at a mostly consistent
    angle; 17th Century civilit\xE9 types have modulation patterns that include features
    that echo rotation of the broad nib pen; and 18th and 19th Century neoclassical
    and romantic types have modulation patterns that echo the dynamism of the split
    steel nib found in contemporary writing.\r\n\r\nTwo things, at least, should be
    evident from this:\r\n\r\n1. Making shapes using particular tools can produce
    numerous modulation patterns that might be echo'd in type, regardless of how the
    type itself is made (cut from steel, \u2018sculpting\u2019 on the computer screen
    as you put it);\r\n\r\n2. The independent manufacture of type does not tie it
    to any one modulation pattern or to any particular writing technique or tool,
    or indeed, to any written model.\r\n\r\nI would add to that the observation that
    modulation patterns derived from tool and technique produce internal consistency
    when applied across a range of shapes such as an alphabet, so provide a reliable
    means to avoid arbitrariness and distracting inconsistency. As Evert Bloemsma
    showed us, though, there are other methods to avoid arbitrariness. A good question
    for any type designer wishing to work with modulation patterns not echoing written
    forms to ask is this: why is Legato so good and so many of Fred Goudy's types
    not."
  created: '2011-12-13 23:23:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Goudy\u2019s \u0153uvre was vast.\r\nWhich particular works of his fall short,
    in your opinion?\r\n\r\nHis didone comes to mind immediately, and that characterizes
    his types, for me; he rarely seemed comfortable away from the old style."
  created: '2011-12-13 23:47:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>The didones don't follow pen logic.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but
    they very much do so, and I've watched masters of split nib calligraphy write
    these Didone letters.\r\n\r\n[Caveat: I'm talking about the types of Didot, Bodoni
    and their contemporaries, not more recent 'revivals' of these styles which, as
    you say, owe more to drafting tools.]"
  created: '2011-12-14 03:22:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> arbitrariness and distracting inconsistency\r\n\r\nThis idea opens the
    door to the next level. Beyond Modernism, which is\r\na place that Evert -as much
    as he was a genius*- remained confined to.\r\n\r\n* And I never use that word
    lightly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 03:48:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: John, Having written those forms many times, I am very, very familiar with
    pointed pen or split nibbed as you call it.  I am well aware of the hands written
    in that period.  While I agree that the pointed pen writing forms were very much
    the insight behind the design being prompted,  but the tool logic does not hold
    for the types we know of which came from Bodoni. They were much more geometric
    construction than pointed pen writing.  If anything, engraving examples are a
    far better fit
  created: '2011-12-14 04:39:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I think you are right about Baskerville being close to the pointed
    pen writing, something where I was wrong in an earlier discussion. But I think
    Chris is right on this one. Bodoni is influenced by Baskerville, but in so far
    as it departs from it, it seems to be working from a different visual logic. For
    example, how the heck are you going to write that A which Chris shows, in continuous
    strokes?\r\n\r\nOverall, I think Chris's above post on visual logic is very well
    put, and right on target.\r\n\r\nIt also relates to why I think your campaign
    against handwriting influences is misguided, Hrant. Some features of writing with
    the broad pen help readability, some hurt, and some are neutral. The classic old
    styles, beginning with Jenson, use a different visual logic, holding on to some
    pen features and abandoning others. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 14:31:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Some features of writing with the broad pen help readability,\r\n> some
    hurt, and some are neutral.\r\n\r\nI agree entirely. For example \"stroke\" contrast
    helps, and it's\r\nnot something one would think of instinctively, it came out
    from\r\nusing an edged marking tool. The problem is, provenance aside,\r\n<em>continuing
    to think</em> of chirography as an inescapably good\r\ninfluence in type design
    makes no sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 14:46:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'So we''re in agreement, Hrant. Wow did I just write that? :) '
  created: '2011-12-14 15:08:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pointedpenclassic_3550.png]\r\nAbove
    is classic pointed pen writing\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bodcps_3814.png]\r\nAbove
    is Bodoni capitals from his \"Manuale Typografico\" Vol 1.\r\nClearly the pen
    is long gone.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyrillic-bod_4782.png]\r\nAbove
    Cyrillic shows even more construction behind it."
  created: '2011-12-14 15:46:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...modulation patterns derived from tool and technique produce internal
    consistency...\"\r\n\r\nYes, but this is only one kind of logic.  The prime example
    is pen logic.  Even in pen logic, there have been differences in how pens or other
    tools have been used.  Your recent Flemish example to me comes to mind.  The didones
    don't follow pen logic.  If anything, they are from a drafting tool logic (compass,
    straight edge, geometric figures,etc)\r\n\r\nMany sans mostly, grotesques don't
    follow tool logic either, they are founded on optical corrections required after
    a geometric starting point.  They do follow a consistency pattern, however.\r\n\r\nThe
    important thing is that there be some kind of logic behind whatever the designer
    uses--even if it is a \"grunge\" logic.  Bloesma had his own way of seeing and
    it works quite well, in fact extremely well.  \r\n\r\nI prefer to let the form
    tell me if it is working, not only by itself but when placed next to other forms.
    \ To me, there is figure and there is ground.  Neither one is positive or negative
    or of lesser value . Both must live in some kind of harmony but the rules of harmony
    vary as much as they do in music.\r\n\r\nYou can use the logic of falling shadows
    in perspective or some purely mathematical progression be it Fibonacci  or simple
    arithmetic or any of your invention.  There is also fractal logic which is amazingly
    adaptive.\r\n\r\nI guess there is a ton of possibilities that all fall under \"visual
    logic\"."
  created: '2011-12-14 15:48:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill,\r\nContinuous strokes [at least as  know them] are not required for
    pointed pen writing.  There is a lot of elbow contortion when writing in this
    style for right-handed scribes.  Lefties loved it though! The pen was lifted often
    at the bottom of the stem.  There was very little \"build-up\" of strokes in the
    written hand, though.  Pressure on the pen cause the nib to spread and the stroke
    to thicken.  The build up of thicks came at large sizes where no pen could ever
    spread enough to make that big of a line weight change.  \r\nEngravers would scribe
    lines and reduce the fills by etching.  The development of fine steel for swords
    opened the world for engraving.  The quality of steel was hard enough to score
    copper, zinc, etc. with ease.  The steel compass with scoring blade was an engravers
    friend.  There was also quite a bit of bank stationary done on lithographic stones
    using this style of lettering.  Acid resistant touche was skillfully applied to
    lith stones and then given an acid bath--sufficient to make the lettering feel
    raised.  When I was in design school in print making class.  A bank printing firm
    donated hundreds of huge lith stones to Carnegie Mellon with the written text
    and filagree still firmly etched in place--no bearer bonds though ;-)  Our class
    moved the stones by hand from the dusty back room of the engravers shop and loaded
    them onto my room mates 1960 Volkswagon Micro-bus.  It took dozens of trips and
    many bashed fingers :-)"
  created: '2011-12-14 16:15:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, not that it irks me to agree with you :-) but I do\r\nwant to elaborate
    my view and see what you (plural) think.\r\n\r\nIt ties in to the nice \"arbitrary\"
    that John used. To me that's\r\nbasically what chirography is in type. It might
    <em>seem</em> to enforce\r\na logic or certain consistency, but since it's a logic
    alien to the\r\nfunctionality of type all it can do is distract. We should be
    using\r\n\"stroke\" contrast in our text fonts, but not because of a happy\r\nchirographic
    accident, but because it helps reading. By the same\r\ntoken we should not use
    attributes of chirography just because we\r\nused to read only handwriting hundreds
    of years ago, we should\r\nonly use them because they serve an identifiable purpose.\r\n\r\nThe
    hand brings a gift that the eye does not need.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 16:40:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Why should a logic intrinsic to the functionality of writing with a pen be
    alien to the\r\nfunctionality of writing with type? The functionality of writing
    in the scribal tradition was not a chirographic accident but a centuries-long
    interactive project between the reading eye and the writing hand. What logic is
    intrinsic to the functionality of type that make it superior?\r\n\r\nThis is not
    to say that positive and non-arbitrary norm-violation of a chirographic base can't
    be productive of even greater functionality in terms of reading. Perhaps it can,
    though this is pure speculation. We don't have the science to prove it. Yet. Yet
    we have our eyes.\r\n\r\nTo me the ductus is simply, the path."
  created: '2011-12-14 19:30:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The functionality of writing in the scribal tradition was not a chirographic
    accident\r\n\r\nNo, I meant that \"stroke\" contrast for example is a chirographic
    happy accident.\r\nI personally can't encourage dumb-luck design. So for example
    I refuse to make\r\nand endorse serifs that have an adnate left side and an abrupt
    right side, at least\r\nnot until somebody gives me a reason beyond \"it alludes
    to what the hand makes\".\r\n\r\n> interactive project between the reading eye
    and the writing hand.\r\n\r\nLooking at the letters you're making isn't reading.\r\n\r\n>
    What logic is intrinsic to the functionality of type that make it superior?\r\n\r\nNot
    superior in every way. But superior for what is expected of\r\nprinted matter:
    to be easy to read, not easy to reproduce by hand.\r\n\r\n> We don't have the
    science to prove it.\r\n\r\nIn the absence of formal proof rationality remains.\r\nAs
    does the desire to mark true progress.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 19:43:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "When I said \u201Cfunctionality of writing with a pen\u201D, I didn't mean
    easy for the hand. I meant fit for reading. And the fitness became consolidated
    over time. The scribal hand was for reading, and that's what readers eventually
    came to do with it\u2019s products: fluent silent reading.\r\n\r\nTo my mind the
    gift the metal and the beziers bring is <em>progressive</em>, positive, non-arbitrary
    norm-violation toward greater functionality, and norm-violation on norm-violation,
    to the 3rd and 4th generation, to the point where it looks like ductal logic is
    no longer even there. That\u2019s what type-designers do: norm-violation toward
    greater functionality or toward greater gestural-atmospheric impact (if it\u2019s
    for display).\r\n\r\nWe repeat ourselves."
  created: '2011-12-14 20:17:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I meant that you and I are repeating things we've said to each other many
    times.\r\n\r\nFitness of the products of the pen (writing) for reading becomes
    consolidated over time. \r\n\r\nWe don't have reading hardware. We have object
    recognition circuitry, which is inherited. This circuitry becomes adapted for
    word recognition and reading during reading acquisition, but  basic object recognition
    principles persist. The eye needs certain things for fast and efficient word recognition
    so writing adapts. This process repeats itself in the writing of ever child who
    learns to write legibly. Read <em>Reading in the Brain</em>.\r\n\r\nWriting is
    relevant because it brought the evolving script system of the Holy Roman Empire
    and it's satellite states to a certain plateau of functionality. Chiro-dogmatism
    isn't relevant. Remembering where we came from is.\r\n\r\nWe are still on the
    plateau. We and our also relevant, sometimes masterly, often well-motivated, presumably
    effective and hopefully progressive norm-violations. Norm-violations, and norm
    violations upon previous norm violations and so on, optimize performance on the
    plateau."
  created: '2011-12-14 23:27:14'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The adaption follows a predictable pattern common to everyone with normally
    functioning circuitry.\r\n\r\nIn my metaphor, a different continent would be a
    different script system."
  created: '2011-12-14 23:33:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The adaption follows a predictable pattern common\r\n> to everyone with
    normally functioning circuitry.\r\n\r\nAnd it is devoid of immersively reading
    ductally-\r\nenforced right-handed broad-nib-pen letterforms.\r\n\r\nIn my metaphor,
    different scripts inhabit the same continent if they follow the\r\nsame philosophy
    of creation. Spoken and written language are different planets.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 23:39:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> And the fitness became consolidated over time.\r\n\r\nReading is a skill,
    so cannot be inherited. And if we agree\r\nthat evolution hasn't had the time
    to affect our reading\r\n\"hardware\" then your position does not make sense.\r\n\r\nMost
    type designers limit themselves by believing in the relevance\r\nof chirography.
    The best type designers (like Bloemsma) know well\r\nthat it's simply a comforting
    illusion. Comforting because it seems\r\nto give more meaning to our physical
    reality. But it's a succubus.\r\n\r\nNothing is ever repeated.\r\nBelieving in
    repetition is also a comforting illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 23:41:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What you or I say are never the same twice.\r\n\r\n> This circuitry becomes
    adapted for word recognition\r\n> and reading during reading acquisition\r\n\r\nThis
    adaptation is individual, and cannot be inherited.\r\n\r\n> writing adapts\r\n\r\nThe
    dead cannot adapt.\r\n\r\nPeter, have you seen children write?\r\n\r\nFrom this
    plateau I see the higher mountains. They are on a different continent.\r\nI'm
    not sure how to get there yet. I see because I'm not afraid to look. I'm not\r\nafraid
    because I don't feel the need to protect the dying old man.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 23:41:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I don't understand your first retort.\r\n\r\nHrant, from where I stand, I
    see that you want strong, bold, ambitious norm violations of contrast styling
    and construction schemes. Notan is your guiding star. Optimizing readability is
    your end-in-view. \r\n\r\nYou think chirography is my guiding star. It isn't.
    I'm not a type designer. I use swept-object arithmetic as a touchstone to bring
    into view, from one, I think illuminating angle, what's going on in your forms,
    not to chastise you. It's a referential axis, a heuristic, not a goal. That's
    how I used it in my analysis of Raffia 8 years ago, and in my analysis of Legato
    more recently. Please don't discredit what I try to do.\r\n\r\nYou are impatient
    with norm-violational timidity, staying close to the shore.\r\n\r\nI can go along
    with what, from my perspective, you seem to want to do. In fact, I applaud it.
    I really do! Go for it brother! Make the laboratory of notan your home. Make it
    a vital place. Get others to join you.\r\n\r\nI think notan is an intensely relevant
    guiding star, if only because both the black and white are information for vision
    in foveal vision, and in parafoveal vision it's the notanic distibution that's
    critical. If a ductus is a path. Follow your ductus.\r\n\r\nTo some extent all
    competent designers are sensitive to Notan. At least, that's what I'm seeing."
  created: '2011-12-15 00:50:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think I've figured your puzzling retort out:\r\n\u2026functional circuitry...
    ...devoid of immersively read ductally-enforced right-handed broad-nib-pen letterforms\r\n\r\nRight.
    Neural representation is feature-tolerant, also of <em>your</em> norm-violations.
    There is a plateau because of this.\r\n\r\nBut while neural representation is
    feature-tolerant, the <em>efficiency</em> of cortical integrational routines (for
    items in foveal vison), and informative [feature] \u2018pooling\u2019 (for parafoveal
    preview) benefits from rhythmic spacing, equivalent valence of the black and white,
    a consistent contrast scheme and strategic construction. \r\n\r\nThe efficiency
    of cortical integrational routines within the visual cortex is one of the key
    components of optimal readability. Here is where the efficacy of adjustments to
    contrast and construction come in. Writing gave the eye a lot of what the visual
    cortex needs to run its cortical integrational routines efficiently."
  created: '2011-12-15 13:24:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Chris, Bill, I think we''re working with different understandings of ''pen
    logic'' here (actually, it isn''t a term I''m very happy with). I take as granted
    that type design when it relates to writing is, to use Peter Enneson''s helpful
    word, parachirographic. I neither expect nor look for the pen to be able to create
    all the precise forms that I see in a typeface informed by the characteristics
    (logic) of that tool. Wht I see in the romantic types of Bodoni, Didot etc. is
    the extreme dynamics of the expansion stroke model as found in contemporary writing
    and, yes, engraving, but you should read the complaints of the 18th Century writing
    masters about how poorly most engravers reproduced their work (Bickham was the
    exception). The dynamics of these letters, their characteristic modulation pattern,
    the particular transitions between the hairlines and the curves: these are all
    derived from the characteristics of the split nib, parachirographically interpreted,
    as always, into the new medium of type. That medium, of course, suggests solutions
    of its own, some of which differ from those available to the scribe. I don''t
    see a problem with acknowledging those differences while recognising the foundational
    reliance on the characteristics of the pen to establish the style.'
  created: '2011-12-16 05:00:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nAs I said, it is certainly apparent that Bodoni got the idea
    of strong contrast and quick modulation from pointed pen writing.  The problem
    I see is that this look is hardly a device dependent technique. Also, pointed
    pen writing surely has no where near the regularity, precision, and broad range
    of expansion as drafting techniques can produce.  The interpreation I get from
    what you said above is that the didone types were trying to mimic the written
    scripts and are forever bound to genuflect to pen in a subserviant way.\r\n\r\nI
    can see your argument with Gutenberg and blackletter and italics to various nibbed
    hands.  The constant angle of pen dictates the stresses with them.  The pen held
    at the single proper angle will direct the shape of the curve.  With the pointed
    pen, the writer must skillfully apply the correct pressure undulations himself,
    The pen does not dictate the curves. The curves instead dictate the pen spread.
    \ To me, this takes the tool out of the equation.  The pointed pens' logic is
    simply that greater pressure makes thicker strokes.  This puts the generation
    squarely in the hand of the writer and the tool just goes at his whim.  The pointed
    pen is a very difficult tool to master compared to a flat pen for this reason.
    \ It gives you nothing. It fights you all the way.  The flat pen does much of
    the work for you and dictates form in and of itself.  Anyone can learn to write
    a somewhat acceptable looking roundhand quite quickly but the pointed pen is a
    stingy beast.\r\n\r\nWas the pen an inspiration? Yes.  Did it dictate the form?
    No.  It cannot instill a logic that it does not have.  It is like a computer that
    forces you to do all the math in your head before it can generate a solution .\r\n\r\nWhile
    I admit that the term \"parachirographically interpreted,\" rings with authority
    [even has a sense of awe about it], creating a new term would just prompt arguments
    over its definition.  That seems pointless.  I don't care what you call it but
    pen logic certainly is much more clear a descriptive term.  It is possible to
    lock a flat pen at a constant angle into an off-center lathe and have it draw
    circles that resemble a flatpen written \"O\" with the only adjust being the pen
    touching the paper and then fixed.  With a pointed pen configured in the same
    way, yes, it will draw a fine circle but without constant manipulation of pressure
    and angle, it won't give you a didone looking\"O\".  It won't because it has no
    logic of its own. It is totally dependent on someone else to supply the needed
    adjustments."
  created: '2011-12-16 06:17:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Chris, I can appreciate what you're saying, but the broad-pen did not dictate
    the curves either. The pen \u2014 and it\u2019s angle \u2014 dictate only the
    stress and the contrast modulation. The curves have to do with the letter\u2019s
    construction conventions. \r\n\r\nWriting with a broad-nibbed pen helped shape
    the way ductal conventions are applied. The pointed pen is parasitic on these
    conventions and also feeds off of broad-nibbed allocation of stress. For example,
    it starts the left side curve of the \u201Co\u201D (without applying pressure)
    where the broad-nibbed pen yields a thin section, and applies pressure as it moves
    along the curve, placing thicker parts where normal broad-pen usage places the
    thicks naturally.\r\n\r\nI keep forgetting my term para-chirographic but like
    that John has found it useful. I still think it applies. It expresses that in
    type the didone forms don't necessarily follow pen-logic to the letter, but spin
    off the products of this logic with an understanding of where the forms come from.
    They spin off. But they stand beside. The historical dynamic is not one of servile
    imitation. <em>Para</em> is to stand beside."
  created: '2011-12-16 13:00:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Peter,\r\nThe pointed pen does not supply either the pressure or the various
    rotations required.  The pen supplies nothing."
  created: '2011-12-16 15:04:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The pointed pen supplies the possibility of pressure. \r\n\r\nNo rotations
    are required to provide it\u2019s own stylization of thicks. They are just put
    in places that <em>relate</em> to where the broad-nibbed pen places them."
  created: '2011-12-16 16:43:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, I've never said that the tool dictates the form. The tool restricts
    some possibilities and encourages others. This is what it provides: a particular
    range of ways of making shapes, which will be explored by scribes in the development
    of particular styles, which will in turn inform the development of styles of typography
    within the same broader cultural framework (cf. Bringhurst on the relationship
    of the dynamics of Romantic type to the dynamics of Romantic music).\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I've never said that the tool dictates the form. What I've said, specifically
    in this thread on ductus, is that the modulation patterns of typographic letters
    tend to derive from those of writing, and that the tool is one factor that determines
    the characteristics that constitute individual styles of writing. Note what I
    wrote earlier: the same tool can be used with different ducti to produce different
    styles, and the same ductus can be written with different tools, also producing
    different styles. But the styles of mature scribal cultures -- as distinct from
    the personal handwriting style -- are conventional systems with strong pedagogical
    traditions (in the original sense of 'handed on'). The characteristic modulation
    patterns of Romantic types echo the modulation patterns of contemporary scribal
    culture (and bear in mind that this was almost the last period in which European
    culture was scribal; the debates we have today about what constitutes 'calligraphy'
    are, to my mind, only possible in a culture that has ceased to be scribal)."
  created: '2011-12-16 18:50:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Rotations ARE required to do it properly.  I have elbow contortion craps
    to prove it ;-)\r\n\r\n\"The Possibility of\" is meaningless.  The whole point
    of a tools logic is what that tool provides by its nature, not by human intervention.
    A stone provides the possibility of being thrown accurately enough to hit an intended
    target.  The stone does not supply anything other than its mass to do the job.
    The likelihood of success hitting the target is quite small given only what the
    tool provides to enhance the odds of success. On the other hand, a rifle supplies
    the user with functions that make hitting a target accurately highly likely.\r\n\r\n\"They
    are just put in places that relate to where the broad-nibbed pen places them.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    completely supports my point!  If a calligrapher is using flat pen logic to draw
    a letter with a pointed pen, then he is using FLAT-pen logic.  If I use an airbrush
    using flat pen logic to draw a glyph, I am not using the airbrush with airbrush
    logic.  If I pound a nail with a glass vase, it is possible but not using glass
    vase logic--it is using hammer logic.\r\nIf I use a flat edged putty knife to
    draw letters in wet plaster, it is quite within the nature of the putty knife
    to do it with ease because it follows the same logic as the flat pen."
  created: '2011-12-16 19:11:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nWhat you are saying is that it is \"Scribal Logic\" that is
    at work!  Not that of the tool--not PENlogic.  I am trying to distinguish between
    what the tool does to affect the form by its nature, not by what the user tries
    to make the tool do in spite of its nature."
  created: '2011-12-16 19:16:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Didone logic is abstract, derived from geometry.\r\nDurer and Tory had a
    go at it c.1500, but it was the Roman du Roi c.1700 that sealed the deal.\r\nThe
    tools involved were the ruler and the compass."
  created: '2011-12-16 19:47:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>I am trying to distinguish between what the tool does to affect
    the form by its nature, not by what the user tries to make the tool do in spite
    of its nature.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd I'm saying that writing doesn't work that way.
    The scribe works with the tool, not in spite of it. Hence, the possibilities of
    the tool -- both what it makes possible and what it makes impossible -- are anything
    but 'meaningless'. They are a constituent factor of the resulting writing styles
    which is <em>proven</em> by the fact that the same ductus written with different
    tools produces different styles.\r\n\r\nNick, you can only make that claim re.
    the Roman du Roi if you completely ignore contemporary French formal writing.
    The geometry of the Roman du Roi plates is a rationalisation of what is already
    evident in writing. The Roman du Roi design doesn't introduce any modulation pattern
    innovation that is abstract or derived from geometry; rather, it tries to describe
    in geometric terms the organic letters created by scribes and type makers in their
    contemporary cultural guise. Durer and Tory et al had done the same thing with
    regard to capitalis monumentalis, fantasising that these were based on geometry
    -- all that radial serif bracketing! -- and missing the fact that they were based
    on the brush."
  created: '2011-12-16 21:15:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, Durer (who wrote the first book on maths published in German) believed
    that there was an underlying mathematical basis to the physical world. His fantasizing
    was visionary, as this is how scientists now address the \"ultimate nature of
    reality\".\r\nHis geometricization of letterforms was both descriptive, and prescriptive,
    or one might say predictive.\r\nWhen he diagrammed the human face as a 3D polygonal
    map, he wasn't missing the fact that it was organic, but investigating structure.\r\n\r\nThe
    scientific body that created the Roman du Roi designs was, too, not merely describing
    contemporary letterforms, but seeking an ideal, and asserting that the ultimate
    structure of letters was abstract, in the sense that it was reducible to straight
    lines and arcs of circle, and mathematical, in the sense that it was drawn on
    graph squares with ruler and compass, and algebraic-looking notation along the
    axes (in the style of Durer). It was a scientific power-play, with science muscling
    in on a cultural activity, much as it does today with readability science.\r\n\r\nThe
    Enlightenment zeitgeist was shared across culture, with writing masters, engravers,
    punch cutters, etc., all pursuing similar formal ideals, informed by cross-pollination
    of the disciplines.The idea that the didone style of type originates with pen
    modulation is too narrow."
  created: '2011-12-17 17:13:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, yes, the Enlightenment zeitgeist was indeed shared across the culture,
    which is precisely why we should be cautious in accepting the claims of the period
    at face value. Periods of intense self-conscious progress tend to a number of
    propagandistic and rhetorical manoeuvres to distinquish themselves from what has
    come before and to proclaim their progressiveness and uniqueness. We see this
    not only in the Enlightenment but also in the Renaissance and, more recently,
    in Modernism. Rationalism, science and mathematics are at once real areas of progress
    in the 18th Century and rhetorical talking points by which that progress is inflated
    and made distinctive at the expense of those contributive elements inherited from
    longer, organic developments.\r\n\r\nTo me, it is more telling that the 'ideal'
    produced by the Roman du Roi committee reflects the forms of contemporary writing
    tools and scribal practices than it is that committee believed it was being scientific.
    It seems to me obvious that there is nothing intrinsically rational or scientific
    about these letterforms that could not be claimed for any other style of lettering
    plotted on graph squares, and equally obvious that if the exercise had been carried
    out at a different time and place, in the context of different contemporary writing
    conventions, then the forms would have been different. [What I will grant is that
    the dynamics of the split nib and the rationalisation of stroke modulation towards
    an orthogonal axis (vertical for upright letters, corresponding to the angle of
    slant for italics) is aesthetically suitable to the intellectual tenor of the
    period. But since these conventions precede or, at least, come very early in the
    proto-Enlightenment period -- fully developed in the italics by the mid-17th Century
    --, how are we to judge the relationship between form and idea? Maybe the writing
    not only influenced the form of the ideal, but also the notion of the ideal.]\r\n\r\n'Visionary'
    fantasies are no less fantasies, and the underlying mathematics that describe
    'the ultimate nature of reality' are not convertible to the macrophysical realm,
    as Schr\xF6dinger demonstrated (the cat is obviously either alive or dead, regardless
    of what the mathematics of Quantum mechanics tells us). D\xFCrer was just wrong:
    there is no underlying mathematical geometry to letters, there are only functional
    requirements and aesthetic conventions that, together, enable a far, far greater
    range of shapes and styles than are describable by singular geometric constructions."
  created: '2011-12-17 19:37:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: <em>\u2026the underlying mathematics that describe 'the ultimate nature
    of reality' are not convertible to the macro physical realm\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    there is a disconnect between macro and micro, but Newtonian and Quantum physics
    both follow on from Durer\u2019s belief in the mathematical structure of the physical
    world. \r\n\r\n<em>'Visionary' fantasies are no less fantasies\u2026</em>\r\n\u2026
    until they become accepted as reality.\r\nDurer\u2019s natural philosophy may
    be more accurately termed theorizing, rather than fantasizing.\r\n\r\n<em>D\xFCrer
    was just wrong: there is no underlying mathematical geometry to letters\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nHe
    was right, and proved it by demonstrating that letters could be described by geometric
    lines.\r\nAnd today, you and I work in digital media, drawing letter forms by
    vectored paths.\r\n\r\n<em> \u2026there is nothing intrinsically rational or scientific
    about these letterforms that could not be claimed for any other style of lettering
    plotted on graph squares\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly, any letter form may be plotted
    on a grid, but the Roman du Roi was exceptionally rationalized, in the sense of
    being simplified. \r\n\r\nThe Didone style of type did of course, as you say,
    have a history of many threads, but it seems to me that its underlying premise
    is that letter forms may be reduced to simplified geometric <strong>outlines</strong>.\r\n\r\nThe
    idea that letter designs may be conceived of as constructed from (geometric) outlines
    is fundamentally non-chirographic.\r\nThis is the theory demonstrated by Durer
    and Tory, the Roman du Roi, and PostScript.\r\nAnd it is the principle which informs
    the didone style, \r\nHere is a circle superimposed on one of the letters Chris
    showed above:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BodC_3542.png]"
  created: '2011-12-18 04:55:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not saying that the geometric structure actually used was my example
    below.  The example is just something I did in 10 minutes.  It is pretty damn
    close, though.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/o-didone_4889.png]\r\n\r\nI
    submit that a compass and straight edge \"supplies the possibility of\" quite
    easily reproducing a didone style glyph that is crisp enough for actual use in
    10 minutes.\r\n\r\nThere was zero optical correction in the drawing and it looks
    reasonably good as is."
  created: '2011-12-18 06:53:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Now Chris, about that inverted pentagon\u2026"
  created: '2011-12-18 07:27:44'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] <em>The idea that letter designs may be conceived of as constructed
    from (geometric) outlines is fundamentally non-chirographic.</em>\r\n\r\nPost
    hoc ergo propter hoc [<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post_hoc_ergo_propter_hoc\">wikipedea
    entry here</a>]\r\n\r\nYesterday Gerrit Noordzij sent me the following (I sometimes
    send him links to threads for his information or amusement):\r\n\r\n<em>The discussion
    drags the participants back into the tread down paths that I tried to leave:</em>\r\n\r\n<em>The
    pen does not control form, but strokes.\r\nBroad nib writing is controlled by
    the tool,\r\nFlexible pen writing is controlled by the hand. Pressure is only
    possible in the direction of the hand (The Stroke p. 71 and L\u2019Encyclop\xE9die,
    Paillasson, picture attached).</em>\r\n\r\n\"tread down paths\" should be read
    as tread-down paths, an adjective / noun combination. When I asked what a \"tread
    down path\" is, Noordzij replied: I wanted to say tread down with a meaning like
    worn-out. The tread down path I have in mind is the conventional talk about writing
    and the classification of type.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paiasson_position_1_2_3_4052.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-18 13:03:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "An integral part of the message Noordzij wrote was this.\r\n\r\n<em>There
    is a lot to learn for me from the piled up misconceptions. They resemble the assumption
    that early typography imitated manuscript books. I believe that our predecessors
    just tried to make a book.</em>\r\n\r\n[This makes the leaving of \"tread-down
    paths\" thing more clear.]\r\n\r\nI asked: But didn't they choose from and follow
    conventions of arranging type in columns that they were familiar with because
    of the manuscript tradition?\r\n\r\nGN: Of course. And not just the columns, but
    also the arrangement of paragraphs, the use of versals and, first of all, the
    shapes of the writing. They conformed to all aspects of the manuscript tradition,
    but not to imitate it, let alone to make the reader believe that the typography
    was written by hand. Without these current characteristics of a book, their books
    wouldn\u2019t be books. In the same manner type designers didn\u2019t try to imitate
    handwriting, they just cut the elements of writing. The alternative wouldn\u2019t
    be recognized as writing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 15:35:54'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '"cut"?'
  created: '2011-12-18 16:06:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerrit's opinions have value in proportion to their distance from typography.\r\n\"Printing
    was a fall\"? Game over.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 16:07:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: '"cut" as in punch cutting'
  created: '2011-12-18 17:09:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Post hoc ergo propter hoc</em>\r\n\r\nI have no idea what you mean by
    this Peter.\r\nAre you agreeing or disagreeing with me?\r\n\r\nDescribing letter
    shapes by outlines does, of course, require those outlines to be made by a hand-held
    mark-making device, but by \u201Cnon chirographic\u201D I mean that the process
    does not involve creating stroke weight as a property of the pen nib, either by
    its thickness (broad nib) or the amount of pressure applied (flexible nib). It
    is a conceptual, designerly process, in which stroking plays no physical role.
    Such outlines could even, in theory, be coherently produced by a succession of
    small dots, i.e. pointillism. In type, by cutting with punches."
  created: '2011-12-18 17:28:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant, you are entitled to your own opinions. Your quoted phrase is not a
    quotation but a careless extrapolation. Gerrits remarks about broad-pen, flexible-pen
    writing, and early typography in the above are well-observed, accurate and helpful.
  created: '2011-12-18 17:31:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My quoted phrase is an affirmative answer to a direct question posed\r\nby
    Robin Kinross. I have no reason to doubt that he believes it.\r\n\r\nWhat bothers
    me is not the nominal accuracy of the above, but that:\r\n- The subtext is anti-type.\r\n-
    He's using you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 17:38:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, you seem to be making an after-the-fact [post hoc] geometric derivation
    of a shape the generative cause of the shape historically [propter hoc]. 'Ergo\u2018
    is of course \u2018therefore.\u2019\r\n\r\nI can accept the fact that in your
    own mechanical processes \u201Cstroking plays no physical role.\u2019\r\n\r\nDoesn't
    pen-specific stroke-making [ductal arithmetic] ever provide a notional template
    for you?"
  created: '2011-12-18 17:45:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Broad nib writing is controlled by the tool,\r\nFlexible pen writing is
    controlled by the hand. Pressure is only possible in the direction of the hand\"\r\n\r\nI
    rest my case,  This is exactly what I was trying to get John to see.  Noordzij
    said it well."
  created: '2011-12-18 18:13:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026you seem to be making an after-the-fact [post hoc] geometric derivation
    of a shape the generative cause of the shape historically\u2026 [propter hoc]</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I proposed straight causality.\r\nI wasn\u2019t sure whether you were contesting
    the notion of outline construction as being after-the-fact, or suggesting that
    the idea of it being non-chirographic is after-the-fact.\r\n\r\nMy superimposition
    of a circle over the outline of a Bodoni \u201CC\u201D demonstrates that his logic
    was concerned with constructing via outline shapes, not strokes.\r\n\r\nAs Noordzij
    says, sure there\u2019s a residue of written form, but it\u2019s not about that."
  created: '2011-12-18 18:13:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"about that inverted pentagon\u2026\"\r\n\r\nI guess I am missing your drift
    with this?\r\n\r\nI was just trying to find some typical geometric--even golden
    section reason to  choose a point of intersection of the larger arc other than
    \"that looks about right\""
  created: '2011-12-18 18:17:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not much drift.\r\nOnly that there is some symbolism associated with geometric
    forms.\r\nNot sure if that has any bearing on ductus."
  created: '2011-12-18 18:35:04'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[hpp] <em>My quoted phrase is an affirmative answer to a direct question
    posed\r\nby Robin Kinross. I have no reason to doubt that he believes it.</em>\r\n\r\nhttps://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0405&L=typo-l&D=0&F=P&P=41004\r\n\r\nI
    think you are re-writing history.\r\n\r\n[hpp] <em>What bothers me is not the
    nominal accuracy of the above, but that [\u2026] the subtext is anti-type.</em>
    \r\n\r\nThe subtext is not to oppose type to writing, but to see type as writing
    (with prefabricated shapes).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 19:28:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, I think you (plural) are being apologists. Because this is\r\njust a
    personal exploration for you, you feel no need to change.\r\nTry actually making
    a font that shoots for the future.\r\n\r\nIt doesn't matter that he uses computers.
    Some people gladly use\r\ntechnology to preserve the past. Let me ask you point-blank:\r\nDo
    you think that GN prefers the age before printing was invented\r\nover this one?
    (BTW really, why does he have to use you to filter\r\nhis thoughts? When is the
    last time he did more than preach to the\r\nchoir? A choir that he put together
    himself. I've really had it up to\r\nhere with this \"virtual\" conversation.)\r\n\r\nThe
    subtext is to keep type close to writing with the right hand\r\nholding a broad-nib
    pen. You can see with your own eyes that this\r\nis dying, a little bit every
    single day. To me it's long overdue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-18 19:44:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: [<em>D\xFCrer</em>] <em>was right, and proved it by demonstrating that
    letters could be described by geometric lines. And today, you and I work in digital
    media, drawing letter forms by vectored paths.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are confusing the
    practical ability to use geometry to describe arbitrary and conventional shapes
    with the idea that there is a geometry underlying those shapes. The geometry is
    something that we apply, not something that resides within the letterforms. Vectored
    paths are useful in our work precisely because they are so flexible that we can
    use them to describe virtually any arbitrary shape presuming we have a unit grid
    fine enough. There is no underlying mathematical geometry in the letters, no Platonic
    abstract ideal of the letters. There is only the cultural conventional collection
    of shapes that we recognise as letters, and the common historical phenomenon,
    repeated all over the world, is that those shapes evolve first through writing."
  created: '2011-12-18 19:57:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, I don't have difficulty seeing the point that the hand controls the
    modulation of the split nib stroke weight. But as Noordzij notes: <em>Pressure
    is only possible in the direction of the hand.</em> Remember that I am interpreting
    the influence of written forms on typographic forms -- or as Noordzij puts it,
    \u2018cutting the elements of writing\u2019 -- in terms of <em>styles,</em> which
    I see as constituted, in the case of writing, by particular ductus (movement sequence,
    and in the case of the split nib also pressure) and particular tool. The fact
    that the split nib can create so much more greatly varied modulation patterns
    than the broad nib, by virtue of the controlling hand, is orthogonal to these
    observations, because the actual range of styles of writing and type based on
    the expansion stroke model is comparatively small, especially with regard to type.
    There is little evidence of rotation, and hence, since pressure is only possible
    in the direction of the hand, the patterns of thick and thin strokes tend to be
    regular and mostly replicating conventional patterns in letters that evolved as
    written with a broad nib. The fact that we can, with a split nib, write letters
    in ways that contravene those conventional patterns didn't mean that we did.\r\n\r\n[The
    exceptions, as illustrated by the image Peter posted above, is in what typographers
    are obliged to call swash styles, which the same image shows in their context,
    which is that of ornament. It is instructive, I think to contrast the letters
    created by 17th and 18th Century writing masters with the ornamentation with which
    they surrounded those letters. There is much greater variation in the modulation
    patterns of the ornaments, much greater evidence of rotation and of discretion
    in the amount of pressure, than in the the letters.]"
  created: '2011-12-18 20:20:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Try actually making a font that shoots for the future.</em>\r\n_____\r\n\r\n<blockquote>A
    Klee painting named Angelus Novus shows an angel looking as though he is about
    to move away from something he is fixedly contemplating. His eyes are staring,
    his mouth is open, his wings are spread. This is how one pictures the angel of
    history. His face is turned toward the past. Where we perceive a chain of events,
    he sees one single catastrophe which keeps piling wreckage upon wreckage and hurls
    it in front of his feet. The angel would like to stay, awaken the dead, and make
    whole what has been smashed. But a storm is blowing from Paradise; it has got
    caught in his wings with such violence that the angel can no longer close them.
    The storm irresistibly propels him into the future to which his back is turned,
    while the pile of debris before him grows skyward. This storm is what we call
    progress.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's Walter Benjamin, of course. My codicil to
    this is that we, the living, ride on the shoulders of the angel. Some of us are
    facing forwards towards the past and some of us are facing backwards towards the
    future. I don't know whether we've chosen to sit that way, or were put there by
    genetics or by providence. I do know that it is frequently difficult to understand,
    appreciate or even remember to respect the people who are sitting the other way.
    But that does seem to me something that we can choose."
  created: '2011-12-18 20:33:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: '[Removed. Sorry, I''m unsure for now how to move forward from Hrant''s last
    post in a constructive way.]'
  created: '2011-12-18 21:14:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nThere is a point where the origin of a process loses its grasp
    to the next influence.  That is not to deny that the origin method never played
    a role.  Instead it means that it no-longer leads the progress.  Clearly you disagree,
    but I place that moment of passing the baton over to construction techniques at
    the moment of didone types.  Writing was no-longer leading the pack, it relinquished
    its role and became only a historic marker."
  created: '2011-12-18 21:36:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The geometry is something that we apply, not something that resides within
    the letterforms. </em>\r\n\r\nTrue, the territory is not the map.\r\nBut when
    we learn to read and write, it is by categorizing letter forms according to their
    basic topology, which is simple geometric figures.\r\nDurer took the idea of that
    geometry a step further, by demonstrating that the ductus of pen, or whatever
    was used to style monumental capitals, could be systematically translated into
    mathematical language. It would be possible to then describe the shapes purely
    by text, without reference to the images.\r\nThat's not really surprising, as
    the \u201Corganic\u201D movements of the hand follow basic letter shapes that
    are geometric, and the tool is a system which bears rationalization.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DurerFont1_6436.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-19 02:06:18'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "You guys that you have beaten this thing to death. Momma mia this is over.
    Ductus Fucktus!\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-19 02:32:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, the geometry of the letter as a shape, what you call its basic topology,
    and the geometry that can be used to describe the <em>outline</em> of particular
    letterforms are quite distinct things, which is why I remain unimpressed by Durer's
    exercises (although his visual results are better than those of most attempts
    by this contemporaries, which suggests that he knew more about the conventional,
    organic forms than they did, so had a better idea of what it was to which he was
    applying the geometry). Ironically, the only way to get from the geometry of the
    basic topology to a modulated letter is to apply a stroke model (which is exactly
    what CJK stroke-based font technologies do). Geometric construction of an outline
    is an outside-in approach, while application of a stroke model to the basic topology
    is an inside-out approach. Both are legitimate design processes, but unless we're
    setting out to design something 'experimental' -- i.e. contravening the norms
    of either basic topology or conventional modulation --, then it seems to me that
    we have little choice but to acknowledge the chirographic, because after 550+
    years we're still designing typographic letters whose modulation patterns were
    established in the writing of particular times and places.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nChris:
    <em>Clearly you disagree, but I place that moment of passing the baton over to
    construction techniques at the moment of didone types. Writing was no-longer leading
    the pack, it relinquished its role and became only a historic marker.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think where I disagree is with the notion of a moment, of a passing of the baton.
    I do think that something important happened in the period we're talking about,
    beginning with the Roman du Roi as Nick suggests, and that one of the things this
    involves is the idea of rationalisation, in both form and manufacture. But I see
    this as a process that begins in the late 17th Century and doesn't really come
    to fruition until the late 19th Century, when two key things happen: we cease
    to be a scribal culture because of the introduction of the typewriter, and the
    manufacture of typefaces becomes an industrial, machine process. That's the point
    at which, if the Roman du Roi were then proposed, it could have been manufactured
    direct from the engraved plates, via pantograph, without the interpretative skills
    of Grandjean. So that's 200 years that seem to me too long and messy to say that
    there is a moment at which writing relinquishes its role and a kind of constructivism
    takes over. And still I ask, what was being constructed, what was being rationalised,
    if not writing? Where did the shapes that were being rationalised come from? Where
    did the modulation patterns resulting from the construction come from?"
  created: '2011-12-19 04:16:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 the only way to get from the geometry of the basic topology to
    a modulated letter is to apply a stroke model (which is exactly what CJK stroke-based
    font technologies do).</em>\r\n\r\nThere are other ways, for instance a displaced
    \u201Cdouble exposure\u201D, which could also be conceived of as dragging a basic
    monoline.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-21 01:10:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "You mean something like this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/doubleexposure_3789.png]\r\n\r\nI
    think the number of shapes with which this produces an effect consistent with
    letter modulation is quite limited."
  created: '2011-12-22 21:07:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Funny, I had a similar idea in a waking dream last week!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-22 21:29:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: John, you can transpose in more than one direction and use a number of vectors.
  created: '2011-12-23 07:37:18'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "24:41 \"Another word, here I've drawn formal script all my life and I'd never
    heard of the word ductus. And this French man used it, but ductus is a Latin word.
    It means to lead. That hairline that joins to the next letter is called ductus,
    meaning it leads into the next letter.\"\r\nhttp://www.lynda.com/Print-Design-tutorials/doyaldyounglogotypedesigner/62371-2.html"
  created: '2011-12-23 08:13:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yes, but I'm not convinced it's a useful approach. I accept Nick's correction
    that there is more than one way to get from a topography to a modulated form.
    It seems to me that any 'double exposure' transposition is mostly just modelling
    the topography as written with two corners of a broad nib (Tim Holloway sketches
    with two pencils taped together for the same effect). Is adding additional copies,
    segments or vectors really useful? I'd be intrigued to see some results.
  created: '2011-12-23 08:16:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, I think that drawing with two pencils tied together, at a constant
    angle, and a copy of a single line offset in the direction of the constant angle
    are mathematically equivalent. Once you allow for rotation and expansion of the
    moving front, then you won''t be able to get the same effect by offsetting a copy
    of a single line. '
  created: '2011-12-23 15:17:19'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Pablo\r\n\r\nI think that when the forms are \"drawn,\" as opposed to \"written\"
    with a tool that \"informs\" the letter, the word ductus becomes irrelevant. Certainly
    there is an order to which \"thing\" YOU do first but; a calligraphic tool defines
    the path and order of the making of a form.\r\n\r\nDrawn and written are two very
    different things to me, and yes I do both."
  created: '2011-12-23 16:19:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And I think using the term \"painting\" for writing emphasizes the distinction\r\ncontra
    drawing. Painting involves making filled marks; drawing is defining\r\nnotan's
    edge. This isn't about ideology*, it's about clear communication.\r\n\r\n* I'd
    also substitute \"misinform\" for\r\n\"inform\" - that <em>is</em> an ideological
    issue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 16:29:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nMy favorite trick was to tape two pencils to a big fat rubber eraser.
    \ I used mechanical pencils to avoid the harrows of sharpening ;-)  Later, I used
    a block of wood with holes drilled in it to fit the pencils.  I sometimes added
    a 3rd pencil off axis to limit the thins.  My all time favorite is still flat
    blocks of charcoal on rough paper.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rchar2_4337.png]"
  created: '2011-12-23 17:03:40'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hrant  :-) Not worth my time, as you come to the table well spoken but ignorant.
    Produce your vision and prove us all wrong, but until then STFU.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 22:57:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The charcoal's nice, Chris, because it creates a solid image while also revealing
    what happens at joins, overlaps and reversals. Noordzij used diluted ink to achieve
    the same visualisation of the ductus.
  created: '2011-12-23 22:57:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>until then STFU</em>\r\n\r\nMy alma mater!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stfu_3935.png]"
  created: '2011-12-23 22:59:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, that smiley would only fool a teenage girl - you're too\r\nemotional,
    which is typical of those with your particular interests.\r\nPainting, after all,
    is art.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm working on my \"vision\". However:\r\n- I could never
    <em>prove</em> anything, and in any case I don't expect to change your mind.\r\n-
    I don't need to prove anything (even to myself) to have an instinctive grasp of
    what works and what doesn't; I knew what was wrong with chirographic type way
    before I even took that one cheesy calligraphy course.\r\n- You could always analyze
    Legato to see a better way of making fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 23:18:33'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: ':-) Hrant, you make me laugh. '
  created: '2011-12-23 23:19:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Your fonts however make me sad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 23:20:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Michael if you'd like to see an exploration of non-painting\r\nchirography
    (which has yet to be done on the ground) see this:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31095\r\nIf
    you'd like to cut to the chase skip to my post of 2/20/2007.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 23:38:06'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: I would never consider you one worthy of critiquing any font, good or bad.
    Your site shows your lack of sensibility and taste, and a lack of ability to design
    for the future.
  created: '2011-12-23 23:48:41'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "P.s. Node 31095 is far preceded by Sumner's explorations and Sherri Kiesel's
    work done much earlier than you attempt. It should be noted that both were \"calligraphers\"
    at the time. Woops, I almost forgot Gunnlager. You were late to the table again
    smart ass.\r\n\r\nCheesy calligraphy course? You spoke highly of your teacher
    in the old thread. You truly are situational."
  created: '2011-12-24 00:05:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...creates a solid image while also revealing what happens at joins, overlaps
    and reversals.\"\r\n\r\nThat is exactly why I like it, John!  Also, it gives hints
    of speed of stroke with the darker parts being slower.  Stroke direction is also
    quite clear.  Mostly, it allows me to draw quite large and use full arm and body--a
    much more assured rhythm than the tiny metacarpals.  "
  created: '2011-12-24 00:09:38'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: No Hrant... I'm done. Too many inconsistencies, denials, and excuses. You
    are a fraud.
  created: '2011-12-24 00:21:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My site does indeed suck*. It was done almost 12 years ago,\r\nand at every
    turn I admit that I'm not good at graphic design.\r\nBut to be brutally honest
    I think my left pinky toe is better\r\nprepared for the future of type than a
    painter could ever be.\r\n\r\n* Except for the horizontality, which I think is
    awesome.\r\n\r\n> Sumner's explorations and Sherri Kiesel's work\r\n> Gunnlager.\r\n\r\nCould
    you show examples? I have a feeling that's something else.\r\nHowever -as I myself
    mentioned towards the end of that thread,\r\nwhich you're probably too flustered
    to have read- the work of\r\nRay Eames, in the form of the \"Cover Numerals\"
    is indeed much\r\nolder. However that's not exactly what I was talking about either\r\nsince
    there's no formation of \"bodies\".\r\n\r\n> You spoke highly of your teacher
    in the old thread. \r\n\r\nMaybe I was being too nice - I apologize. The truth
    is the class was\r\nall middle-aged housewives, and when I pointed out what aspect\r\nof
    calligraphy I wanted to explore (what I call \"faux type\") he was\r\nvisibly
    perturbed. He knew his stuff, and I learned quite a bit, but\r\nit was still cheesy.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nNo
    matter how much I might rile you, rise above it and keep\r\nyour mind open. Leave
    your island, at least for a vacation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 00:39:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, I get it. This your new Christmas Card: Peace on Earth, Goodwill to Man
    and STFU.\r\n\r\nI'm sure the calligraphy will be great."
  created: '2011-12-24 04:10:35'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "@Michael\r\n\r\n> I think that when the forms are \"drawn,\" \r\n> as opposed
    to \"written\" with a tool that \"informs\" the letter, \r\n> the word ductus
    becomes irrelevant.\r\nAgree 100% now that I have a (very) little of experience.
    However when doing the very first baby steps in drawing letters, having the \"ductus\"
    concept of the imaginary pen in mind, was very useful in learning where to put
    the weight when drawing.\r\n\r\n> ...a calligraphic tool defines the path and
    order of the making of a form. \r\nYes, mostly. But you can also \"Cheat\" the
    tool. For example, while most formal scripts are done using a pointed pen, you
    can also use a broad nib pen and turn it over the edges for drawing the hairlines
    (as in some of the samples from the Universal Penman).\r\nAnother example: Most
    calligraphy manuals teach you \"Never change the angle of the pen\" however the
    truly beautiful forms comes from rotating the angle while dragging it, and by
    using just a portion of the chisel instead of the full surface of it, and also
    by varying the pressure.\r\nI believe that to truly \"feel\" the Ductus thing,
    you have to try real calligraphy tools. The 2 pencils taped together won't do
    it. (However, is useful as a teaching concept).\r\nMore over... it's not just
    the tool.. it's the position of the hand, the arm... the full body motion and
    the tool working together.\r\n\r\n> Drawn and written are two very different things
    to me\r\nYep, different, but interrelated.\r\n\r\n> and yes I do both.\r\nAnd
    you do both really well, let me add. I am a fan of your work.\r\n\r\nI will also
    like to share these videos... the ductus in live action\r\nRulling Pen:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRL1kfMPvIs&feature=g-all-a&list=PL203A396085F438DF&context=G27bb37dFAAAAAAAABAA\r\nBrush:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Df55H8--dQ&feature=autoplay&list=PL203A396085F438DF&lf=g-all-a&playnext=1\r\nNiels
    Shoe Meulman Brush:\r\nhttp://vimeo.com/11985453\r\nHermann Zapf\r\nhttp://vimeo.com/5385464\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 05:07:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> having the \"ductus\" concept of the imaginary pen in mind, was\r\n> very
    useful in learning where to put the weight when drawing.\r\n\r\nThe problem is
    you're not necessarily putting the weight where\r\nthe reading eye needs. And
    the more you rely on it the further\r\nyou probably are from where you should
    be.\r\n\r\n> Most calligraphy manuals teach you \"Never change the angle\r\n>
    of the pen\" however the truly beautiful forms comes from\r\n> rotating the angle
    while dragging it, and by using just a\r\n> portion of the chisel instead of the
    full surface of it,\r\n> and also by varying the pressure.\r\n\r\nKeep following
    that logic - you will end up in a land\r\nentirely free of ductus, breaking away
    from painting\r\nand moving into the proper determination of notan,\r\nwhich is
    the heart of reading, hence type design.\r\n\r\n> different, but interrelated.\r\n\r\nI
    see them as being at 90 degrees; they sort of point\r\nin the same direction,
    but of course if your direction\r\nof travel is off by ~45 degrees soon enough
    you're lost!\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nTo be fair, if you're only making display fonts,
    you're OK. But for\r\na text face, Beauty is elsewhere. In fact it's on another
    continent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 05:32:41'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "> To be fair, if you're only making display fonts, you're OK. But for\r\na
    text face, Beauty is elsewhere. In fact it's on another continent.\r\n\r\nI understand
    that text faces have a entire different set of rules, and that good reading flow
    and rhythm is more important that beauty. However they can also be beautiful,
    for example: Zapf Renaissance, Galliard\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 07:42:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Earlier Hrant wrote: Painting involves making filled marks; drawing is defining
    notan\u2019s edge.\r\n\r\nI think this is too black and white. See: http://typophile.com/node/88563"
  created: '2011-12-24 13:52:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they can also be beautiful\r\n\r\nActually my view is that a text face
    must have an ugliness to be real.\r\nThink for example of how the lc \"g\" <em>must</em>
    be a little cramped, otherwise\r\nmore important things throughout the entire
    font go off balance.\r\n\r\nPeter, thank you for starting that other thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 15:41:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I don't see it as ugliness. I see it as a text font needs to be what it needs
    to be to work well. Size and distance create their own aesthetic and that is a
    good thing.
  created: '2011-12-24 18:51:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Scale does indeed change the context of beauty, but when\r\nyou're consciously
    evaluating individual glyphs you look\r\nat them large, and if the \"g\" is formally
    beautiful then the\r\nfont's functionality is necessarily ugly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 18:58:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, you look at them large but you have to see them as if they were small.  This
    is not ugliness to me, it is the beauty of the adaptable human mind.
  created: '2011-12-24 19:23:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm talking about formal beauty versus functional beauty.\r\nAnd balancing
    them is Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 19:24:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: To me, functional beauty is by definition, formal beauty.  The pages of praise
    and damnation written by art critics and historians past and present is a fast
    fleeting comment on "Style" and opinion, not true beauty.  If we just wait a bit,
    styles change and opinions change but functional beauty never does.  The wheel
    is still a beautiful thing.
  created: '2011-12-24 19:32:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Beauty is determined by the taste of the viewer as much as by the object.\r\n\r\nOnce
    I see that the angularity in a face such as Trump Mediaeval is thematic, and serves
    a purpose in the way that the glyphs work together, then I have developed sufficient
    taste to appreciate the abrupt styling of the individual glyphs, which I might
    not have if I am just looking at a single glyph in isolation, with no knowledge
    of the face as a whole.\r\n\r\nThe perception of (aesthetic) ugliness may thus
    be as much the result of ignorance on the viewer\u2019s part, as ineptitiude by
    the artist/designer.\r\n\r\nSimilarly, irony requires global knowledge for a specific
    situation to be perceived as such."
  created: '2011-12-24 20:04:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good point, and good explanation. However the ugliness I'm talking\r\nabout
    isn't something that can be consciously incorporated into an\r\nappreciation of
    style because its origin/purpose is non-formal. The\r\ncramping of the \"g\" for
    example isn't about style on any level... and\r\ncome to think of it, it's not
    even about <em>breaking</em> style!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 20:26:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Re. g, I\u2019m reminded of the different treatments T.M. Cleland gave to
    it in what is provisionally the same lettering style, but with different vertical
    metrics occasioned contextually by the layout and the particular words in each
    headline:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cleland1_4567.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cleland2_5456.jpg]"
  created: '2011-12-24 21:39:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "All the stuff having to do with style is not imposed by the designer.  It
    is imposed by the viewer--mostly the so called \"expert viewer\" or critic who
    gets the defacto job of telling the masses what they are \"supposed to\" find
    beautiful.  Those who praised the Academy painters also damned the Fauves.  Later,
    the Fauves were looked upon as gods and the Academy was damned as nothing but
    stylistic copies of the Greco-Roman classics.  Later, the Surrealist praisers
    condemned the Fauves, the non-objective lovers damned the whole lot of them, and
    so on until today.  All of the works created throughout history have not changed.
    \ Each were either damned or praised at some point in time at the discretion of
    whoever society looked upon as \"Experts\".  The artists only role was doing the
    work.  Many were dead before disfavor or favor struck their work.\r\n\r\nAs a
    viewer, you can choose to look at work you do not care for and blaspheme it or
    condemn its creator as some sort of categoric name that you dislike like \"Artist\".
    \ You may also praise work you like and give its creator a categoric name that
    you admire like \"genius\" or \"Designer\".  That does not change the work or
    the reasoning behind creation of the work, it only defines your opinion of the
    work and its maker. We can opine about what we thought was the motivation for
    or reasoning of the work by the maker but we never truly KNOW it to be true.  Of
    course there are those who may assume everything that they think is true in their
    own narcissistic mind.  No matter how loudly they shout or bang their shoes, their
    opinion will never be universally shared.  Opinion and declaration of good taste
    and proper style and artistic genius are passing fancies.  The work is what it
    is to any given individual at any point in time and quite up for disagreement.
    \ Through all this the work does not change with opinion."
  created: '2011-12-24 21:51:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The style is imposed by the designer/artist, but how it is recognized and
    interpreted is another thing, whether by the originator or others. I certainly
    don\u2019t believe that the makers wholly know why and how they do what they do,
    and any rationale they offer is not to be taken too literally, just as with anyone
    else\u2019s explanation."
  created: '2011-12-24 22:23:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>I knew what was wrong with chirographic type way before I even
    took that one cheesy calligraphy course.</em>\r\n...\r\n<em>The problem is you're
    not necessarily putting the weight where the reading eye needs. And the more you
    rely on it the further you probably are from where you should be.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I think you're begging the question -- indeed, have been begging it for years
    now -- by proceeding directly from identification of the constraining limits of
    the pen vis \xE0 vis edge to the assumption that this is 'wrong', the assumption
    that what the reading eye <em>needs</em> is different from the considerable range
    of modulation patterns and edge relationships that people have read around the
    globe for centuries, and the assumption that there is a proportional relationship
    between how closely type design follows writing and how far it is from that need.
    You say you don't need to prove anything 'even to yourself', but if you want people
    to follow your intuitions, you need to start providing at least some evidence
    to back up some of these assumptions, otherwise your arguments will quickly become
    an enclosed circle."
  created: '2011-12-25 01:15:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think I've explained it now and again - for example during\r\nmy talk at
    ATypI's conference in Mexico City. In the end it's a\r\nvery simple explanation:
    any arbitrary constraint (in this case\r\nthe linking of the two edges of the
    black that's being painted)\r\ncan only be an obstacle on the path towards ideal
    functionality.\r\n\r\nBTW, just to be clear, I didn't say that I don't need to
    prove\r\nanything to anybody; what I said was that even if I couldn't\r\nprove
    anything I could still trust my instincts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-25 02:25:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>any arbitrary constraint (in this case the linking of the two
    edges of the black that's being painted) can only be an obstacle on the path towards
    ideal functionality.</em>\r\n\r\nReading is a task that is improved with diminishing
    returns, and is something that people already do so well that functional optimisation
    is not only unnecessary but perverse, since it implies far greater constraint
    than any writing culture has accepted. This is good news for typography, because
    it means that text isn't constrained by the kind of limitations that a narrow
    functionality would impose.\r\n\r\nEven assuming the possibility of ideal functionality
    -- how would you determine it? how would you ever know that there was no further
    improvement to be found? -- you're still begging the question if you assume that
    it cannot, in fact, reside in forms in which the edges have a particular relationship
    such that might be created with a writing tool. You simply can't know that."
  created: '2011-12-25 08:31:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) The smallest room for improvement has never stopped certain people.\r\nHowever
    I happen to believe that the way fonts are currently designed\r\n(and deployed)
    is keeping us in the functional dark ages of reading.\r\n2) I don't see an absolute
    requirement for conscious acceptance. The\r\nmaker of a text font is necessarily
    working \"under the radar\" of reader\r\nconsciousness. This is not to say conscious
    acceptance can be ignored,\r\nit's simply that it's another design dimension.
    And it is exactly the sort\r\nof thing that is highly malleable (unlike our reading
    \"hardware\", at least\r\nnot within many thousands of years).\r\n3) It's not
    a constraint, it is, again, another design dimension. Whatever\r\none concludes
    -with or without empirical proof- one is free to violate.\r\nFor example in Patria
    I made some glyphs (like the \"a\", \"e\" and \"s\") a bit\r\nwider than is good
    for readability - this to reinforce the somewhat \"hefty\"\r\n(masculine) character
    of the face. The important thing is simply to know\r\n-or merely believe- something
    (about readability).\r\n\r\n> how would you ever know that there was no further
    improvement to be found?\r\n\r\nIf I thought that were possible, I would\r\nhave
    used \"perfect\" instead of \"optimal\".  :-)\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I don't \"know that\";
    I probably never will; and nobody\r\nwill probably ever know (since I believe
    that A System Can Never\r\nUnderstand Itself). But a designer tries to understand,
    and then\r\ntakes action based on what he has learned, with more a little bit
    of\r\nFaith. BTW to me this is the essence of Post-Modernism (where\r\nModernism
    insists on Knowing, and taking action only based on\r\nwhat it sees as the uncontestable).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-25 15:16:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] <em>in the functional dark ages of reading</em>\r\n\r\nIf eye-movements
    and visual word-form resolution as they now exist weren\u2019t stable over many
    types and human subjects, rapid, automatic, and effortless, I might agree."
  created: '2011-12-25 15:44:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Walking without shoes was the same for even\r\nlonger than reading in any
    form has been around.\r\nEffortless? Of course that's not true.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-25 16:11:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, my notional frame for measuring effort is visual attentional effort,
    and perceptual psychophysical cost. With time on task visual attentional effort
    pretty much stays the same. If Luckiesh and Moss's results are to be believed,
    perceptual psychophysical costs vary withing a highly stable fluent range.\r\n\r\nHow
    are you measuring effort?\r\n\r\nI think you think the script system some of us
    have been born into and others have adopted is medieval. But that's another matter
    than optimizing notan within a conventional script. If that's the case, you might
    find this recent item, \"Reading in Different Writing Systems: One Architecture,
    Multiple Solutions\" Mark S. Seidenberg [University of Wisconsin-Madison] of use"
  created: '2011-12-25 17:12:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not measuring, I'm thinking. Nothing is effortless, not even breathing.\r\nAs
    far as I'm concerned nobody has yet tested readability properly.\r\n\r\nThere
    are indeed many dimensions of how reading can be improved (not least\r\nwhat I
    meant by \"deployment\"). One of them is my favorite, typeface design,\r\neven
    though it might be one of the smaller factors.\r\n\r\nThe book you cite sounds
    interesting - I'll send UCLA an acquisition request.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-25 17:26:42'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, you seem determined to cut off every effort at productive interchange.
    You seem to want to create the impression that anyone who doesn\u2019t think like
    you, can\u2019t think, and anyone who doesn\u2019t share your instincts has bad
    ones.\r\n\r\nThe reference was to a chapter available on line."
  created: '2011-12-25 18:05:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually my own contention is that you always shoot completely\r\nout of
    the ballpark. I'm interested in simply \"breaking the ice\",\r\nwhich has yet
    to be done. I don't know how many times I've told\r\nyou that your rarefied communication
    strategy cannot lead to real\r\nprogress on the ground, which is my own practical
    objective; it's\r\nlimited to titillating the intellectual senses of around five
    people.\r\n\r\nBTW, a link would be nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-25 18:14:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://lcnl.wisc.edu/publications/archive/194.pdf\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-26 06:21:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, I think I might have made some positive contributions to a number
    of people's understanding of how perceptual processing in reading actually works,
    and proposed some \u2018typographical craft-knowledge\u2019 motivated alternatives
    to the conventional understandings of reading available in cognitive scientific,
    neuro-phenomenological and perceptual psychophysical studies of reading. \r\n\r\nMy
    interest ever since my Thessaloniki presentation in 2004 was to provide \u201Cperceptual
    processing touchstones for type design and typography,\u201D that is, to say \u201Dwhy
    strategic construction, a well-motivated contrast scheme and space-craft still
    matter.\u201D\r\n\r\nI still like many of the things we were discussing then,
    like perceptual distances between letters, similars and modulars, diversifying
    boumas, consolidation of the bouma, how reverse saccades migh be diagnostic in
    telling us where problems in the script system lie, even notan. I think you are
    right in insisting that constraints native to the tool that gave the western script
    system its shape not prevent us from these kinds of explorations. I understand
    your communication strategy I think. To make room for productive exploration you
    rely on arguments which are thought-provoking, destabilizing and even instinctively
    attractive. Against the background of what I know, a sense them to be not always
    accurate, well-founded or fully justified. You inverse relationship law about
    distance from the constraints imposed by the tool to proximity to what\u2019s
    optimal for the eye is an example of this. It's just not that cut and dry and
    misrepresents the value of what's evolved, and the usefulness of form-analytic
    tools proposed by others, which is what I try to show.\r\n\r\nI think my current
    view of perceptual processing in reading is a deepening of the notion that reading
    is bouma-based. The deepening came through massive immersion in the psychological
    literature on reading. I hope you can acknowledge that what I try to work at has
    value.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-26 15:15:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It most certainly has value.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe application of any idea
    is never absolute, but any idea\r\nitself always is. There is no way that a constraint*
    that does\r\nnot reinforce the basic way in which we read (which I believe is\r\nbased
    on notan**) can be anything more than an obstacle. Your\r\ndeeply technical elaborations
    only serve as distractions until\r\nthis basic tenet becomes ingrained in the
    lore of type design.\r\n\r\n* That cannot be incorporated into the human physionomy\r\nwithout
    thousands of years of evolution. Sure, you can get\r\nused to anything, but that
    does not make it optimal.\r\n\r\n** What else could it be?\r\n\r\nAnd when I try
    to figure out why you persist in incorporating\r\nchirography into readability
    I come up with nothing nice to say.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-26 15:41:53'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'I appreciate your reply Hrant. All of it. '
  created: '2011-12-26 16:06:58'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Yep, you are definitely trying to out-buzzword each other.
  created: '2011-12-26 22:27:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't buzz, I boom.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-26 22:47:33'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Nope. You boom-ah. :-\xFE"
  created: '2011-12-27 18:50:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Hrant: <em>And when I try to figure out why you persist in incorporating\r\nchirography
    into readability I come up with nothing nice to say.</em>\r\n\r\nMight there not
    be some predisposition in perception that avoids equivalence?\r\n\r\nI propose
    that evolution adaptively favors the ability to make fine visual distinctions.\r\nWhen
    confronted with perceptual data that show an equivalence between stimuli, a resolution
    is demanded, because in nature nothing is identical.\r\n\r\nEquivalence between
    vertical and horizontal proportion is disconcerting and to be avoided; this is
    a broad cultural phenomenon.\r\nWhen horizontal arms in an organism or artefact
    are the same thickness as legs, it doesn\u2019t look natural and structurally
    sound\u2014there are no trees in which this occurs, for instance.\r\n\r\nChirography
    implements the principle that stem contrast is natural (in harmony with perceptual
    processes) and desirable, whether by nib width or pen pressure.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    the quality of the implement informs the typeface as a style, modulating the effect
    of the contrast in a systematic way, providing a consistent tonality that doesn\u2019t
    have to be decoded and reappraised letter by letter. Rather like the timbre of
    a nusicak instrument.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-27 19:17:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Chirography implements the principle that stem contrast is natural\r\n\r\nI've
    long agreed that \"stroke\" contrast is a good thing (although not\r\nbecause
    of any conscious preference). The thing is, chirography has\r\narrived at it by
    happy accident*, and it's much better to simply think\r\nof such contrast on its
    own terms.\r\n\r\n* And by the same token it must also\r\nbring with it some unwanted
    baggage.\r\n\r\nAlso, thinking that this has anything to do with <em>evolution</em>\r\nis
    dangerous, because that takes many thousands of years.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-27 19:19:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No, what I\u2019m saying is that organisms have evolved in a certain way
    (prior to and also including humanity), and that is why we now have certain visual
    preferences in our culture."
  created: '2011-12-27 19:24:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Really? That's not like you!  :-)\r\n(Anyway, with that I agree.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-27 19:29:14'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ Hrant\r\n\r\nThe thing is, chirography has\r\narrived at it by happy accident*,
    and it's much better to simply think\r\nof such contrast on its own terms.\r\n\r\n*
    And by the same token it must also\r\nbring with it some unwanted baggage.\r\n\r\nGARBAGE!!!!!!"
  created: '2011-12-31 22:59:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually meant garbage, not baggage - thank you.\r\n\r\nWhat tool? The
    astrolabe. For navigating\r\nthrough the darkness, to the New World.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-31 23:35:26'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Lettering, calligraphy... what ever you want to call it informed it!\r\n\r\nWhat
    tool do you suggest if not the pen?\r\n\r\nJust for grins:\r\n\r\nAccording to
    David Brooks' column today, \"People remember information that is hard to master.
    In a study for Cognition, Connor Diemand-Yauman, Daniel Oppenheimer and Erikka
    Vaughan found that information in hard-to-read fonts was better remembered than
    information transmitted in easier fonts.\""
  created: '2011-12-31 23:36:21'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "The  \"astrolabe?\" You have to be kidding me!\r\n\r\nYour greatest confrontational
    tool... obfuscation!\r\n\r\nSpend more time bringing your vision to light on paper/computer
    instead of fighting the evil of the pen!"
  created: '2011-12-31 23:51:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As I remember, the hard-to-read fonts test did not control for time on task.
    If there were equal time spend studying the material\u2014say because it interested
    them\u2014with a good font, I think the results would be different. "
  created: '2012-01-01 00:03:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Just reporting the news William. And that should tell you the quality of the
    journalistic sector.
  created: '2012-01-01 00:18:42'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: One can tell the world's gone cuckoo when I sound like the word of reason.
  created: '2012-01-01 19:26:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Reynir\r\n\r\nThere is no reason here... Hrant is here :-)\r\n\r\np.s. William,
    if I have to struggle over something I am more likely to remember it!"
  created: '2012-01-04 02:11:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Yes, I agree, Michael. The question is whether if your time with something
    is out of interest in all facets of the issue, and you spend equal time on it,
    with good typography, is that going to be better than with bad typography.
  created: '2012-01-04 23:06:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, I hope you got a punching bag for Christmas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-06 16:21:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@typerror &ndash; Usually, I''m more towards Loki and Toltiir. To sound like
    Harmonia''s voice is rather jarring. Squerk.'
  created: '2012-01-06 16:58:58'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Who said anything about bad typography William?
  created: '2012-01-08 20:07:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Michael, you did, above referring to the study. '
  created: '2012-01-08 20:20:32'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "@ Alex Kaczun \t<em> does anyone else know of of any combination of tools
    that can get that effect </em>\r\n\r\nYep, Illy or Ps brushes. Ps brush engine
    is thing of beauty especially when combined with pen pressure. Create a Calligraphy
    brush in Illy and texture it in Ps. Or do the whole piece in Ps with custom brush
    setting(s) and stroked pen tool paths. \r\n\r\nLess than a minute in Ps...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ps_texturedquickstroke_4803.jpg]\r\n\r\n...good
    luck! Hope that helps."
  created: '2012-01-08 21:47:42'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: '@ William... NOPE: HARD TO READ is not the same as "bad fonts" William. For
    someone who seems to treasure the word it seems you would not have made such a
    faux pas.'
  created: '2012-01-08 22:17:42'
date: '2011-12-04 09:58:52'
title: ductus

---
