---
author:
  name: Alex Kaczun
  picture: 114613
body: "http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/typeinnovations/metalica/\r\n\r\nMetalica is a
  futuristic, techno-looking and expressive typeface with an appearance of metal-like
  parts with some very sharp edges.\r\n\r\nBe careful... don't cut yourself.\r\n\r\nComes
  in 5-flavors: Roman, Slant, Swash, Ornamental & Outline.\r\n\r\nPlease let me know
  if you like it. Thanks."
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Expect a call from Mr. Ulrich's lawyer\u2026"
  created: '2011-12-06 05:11:29'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Metallica is, completely objectivly, the worst band in history. I wouldn't
    want that connotation.
  created: '2011-12-06 12:08:01'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@ Nick\r\n\r\nwould you care to elaborate?\r\n\r\n@ frode frank\r\n\r\nIf
    you can't offer any constructive criticism than don't!"
  created: '2011-12-06 14:15:31'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "I apologize.\r\n\r\nIt has just come to my attention what this is all about.\r\n\r\nI
    had no idea of the \"band\" Metallica. I guess being 60 gives away my ignorance.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I simple mistake on my part.\r\n\r\nWhen I designed the fonts they reminded me
    of METAL.\r\n\r\nSo I just added the \"ica\" at the end of name to make it sound
    interesting.\r\n\r\nI will remove fonts immediately and come up with a better
    name.\r\n\r\nThanks for the heads-up on the matter."
  created: '2011-12-06 14:43:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Age has nothing to do with it, Alex\u2014I suspect you were listening to
    a different kind of music in the 1980s!\r\nYou might also have come across Metallica
    when they went after Napster and piracy in 2000, which was a <em>cause cel\xE8bre</em>
    not unrelated to our line of work. \r\n\r\nFrode, would this make it more palatable?\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tlyVFGr34v8&feature=fvsr"
  created: '2011-12-06 18:38:21'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "yeah... music like \"The Doors\", \"The Who\".\r\n\r\nI listened to the \"cello\"
    Metallica link, interesting (not bad), and I found the comments entertaining.\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    this font-name-picking-business is getting harder than designing fonts.\r\n\r\nAll
    the good names have been taken... something like 350,000 + fonts.\r\n\r\nIt's
    getting to the point that we have to make up names. Maybe just alpha numeric \"XLR
    500\" to be safe.\r\n\r\nBy-the-way, any good suggestions for a new name? Much
    appreciated.\r\n\r\nWe should have a specific forum for dealing with \"font naming\"
    issues.\r\n\r\nCan someone please make a \"font-naming\" generator.\r\n\r\nThey
    have one for generating music band names...\r\n\r\nhttp://b10m.swal.org/cgi-bin/bandname.cgi\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I should have realized, the name sounded too cool. Probably came from somewhere
    in my subconscious mind."
  created: '2011-12-06 19:28:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Keep the name! Ulrich threatening you might be the best publicity you could
    get. ;)
  created: '2011-12-06 20:00:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Can someone please make a \"font-naming\" generator.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nGoogle
    works pretty well. \r\n\r\n<cite>Ulrich threatening you might be the best publicity
    you could get.</cite>\r\n\r\nI suspect having to pay Ulrich\u2019s trademark attorney
    would negate the publicity many times over."
  created: '2011-12-06 20:09:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about \"Beastmaster\"?\r\nhttp://thedarkblade.com/introducing-the-glaive/\r\n\r\n>
    All the good names have been taken...\r\n\r\nTwombly once said the same, adding
    an implication that\r\nmany who have taken names she would have liked to use\r\nare
    not worthy. I couldn't agree less, on both counts. \r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-06 20:53:59'
- author:
    name: TurtleType
    picture: 123445
  body: "I have a brainstorming app called Thought Office, when I did a word association
    search with the word \"thorn\" I was amazed by all the cool sounding words, most
    notably those derived from plants. \r\n\r\ndatura\r\ncatechu\r\ncockspur\r\nfirethorn\r\nrhamn
    (buckthorn)\r\nspiniform\r\nspinule \r\natropine \r\naculeus\r\nzareba\r\naculeiform\r\n\r\nI
    hope this gives you some ideas.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-06 22:54:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Nick: Not technically bad per se\u2014although it\u2019s fairly obvious Mr.
    Ulrich picked the wrong instrument. It\u2019s just that it\u2019s really horrible.
    Metallica is the drop shadow of music.\r\n\r\nAlex: I can\u2019t see anything
    but the poster at this moment, but I really like the \u201Ct\u201D. For a name,
    how about <em>Heavy Duty?</em>"
  created: '2011-12-07 01:14:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Alex, when you have released fonts within the last two years called Android,
    Dexter, and Scion it will be difficult to make the case that any similarity to
    a popular band name was unintentional.
  created: '2011-12-07 11:04:00'
- author:
    name: pjacob
    picture: 118951
  body: frode frank - perhaps you'd enjoy this More [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nhq1uWY9wHg&feature=youtu.be]]
  created: '2011-12-07 12:38:14'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "A-hah-hah, the drop shadow of music, that made me choke on my coffee. [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OBmM79YadYM|This
    Metallica video]] is actually highly enjoyable, just wait till he starts singing.
    He-he. \r\n\r\nAlex, how about naming it after a specific type of metal? (Just
    don't take Erbium, as I've been planning to use that for a loose Erbar revival
    for years.)"
  created: '2011-12-07 13:29:32'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I once watched a Metallica documentary with a couple of friends just to be
    polite \u2026 and then they came to the part where they write lyrics. Ouch."
  created: '2011-12-07 14:09:33'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FontName_3979.jpg]\r\n\r\n>hrant\u2014\"Beastmaster\"
    sounds great. But it's a name based on a 1982 movie, starring Marc Singer.\r\n\r\n>frode
    frank\u2014\"Heavy Duty\" sounds good too.\r\n\r\n>Sindre\u2014good idea, if I
    can't pick from one of these 5 names I'll start looking at metal \"types\". Thanks.\r\n\r\nI
    put together a final list of 5 names that I really like.\r\n\r\nIf you google
    the first 3 there are references to other products.\r\n\r\nRogueblade and Heavy
    Duty seem safe choices.\r\n\r\nI really like \"Darkblade\" because the swash ornamental
    serifs on the capitals resembles a dark blade or spear.\r\n\r\nIs it okay to use
    \"Darkblade\"? General consensus, please."
  created: '2011-12-07 14:23:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about \"Botcleavage\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-07 14:27:23'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">\"Botcleavage\", Haha... good one. Now, that's original.\r\n\r\nHas no meaning,
    but sounds like \"Butt Cleavage\". No, I don't think so.\r\n\r\nBut, maybe something
    with the word \"cleavage\" in it. Hmmm..."
  created: '2011-12-07 14:39:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bot = robot.\r\n(But I've been trying to be funny and it's not working.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-07 16:22:04'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Oh, bot you are being funny...\r\n\r\nWhich name do you like best, out of
    the 5 above? Help me... please.\r\n\r\nI'd gladly pay someone to just come up
    with good names for fonts. This is so hard."
  created: '2011-12-07 16:38:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, it is hard to think up good names, but WTF.\r\n\r\nAlex: \u201Calphanumeric\u201D
    titling has been well done by Autechre, but AFAIK not yet applied to typefaces.\r\nPerhaps
    foundries are wary that there may be some technical glitch lying in wait (I recall
    the trouble that Eras once had, when some apps wouldn't recognize font names with
    less than five letters!)\r\n\r\nUnobtanium (from the <em>Avatar</em> movie) was
    a brilliant groaner.\r\nAnd the classic Dilithium crystals, of course.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-07 17:20:24'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">Good point Nick. Postscript fonts work on the \"5-3-3\" rule for proper
    naming. I can anticipate the issues with font names less and 5 characters long
    to begin with.\r\n\r\nI'm working on a new family of fonts with a multitude of
    weights and variations.\r\n\r\nI've studied what other type designers are utilizing
    for font naming schemes and solutions.\r\n\r\nTypeName-A SER 500, Typename-B SLB
    600, and so forth (A, B, etc could imply variations in body proportions, or whatever).\r\n\r\nQuestion:
    Is this a good idea or practice? I mean using hyphens, and other such stuff?\r\n\r\nI
    like the idea of using acronym to shorten and abbreviate words like \"Serif\"
    or \"Slab\", etc.\r\n\r\nI'm currently trying to figure out my own strategies
    going forward.\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to hear what others think on the
    matter.\r\n\r\nAny ideas or suggestions welcome. Thank you."
  created: '2011-12-07 17:45:07'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Maybe "[[http://hilmartho.blog.is/blog/hilmartho/image/417128/|Hay Hook]]"?
    This type of hook was used to pull hay from a solid stack.
  created: '2011-12-07 19:19:12'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Haha, that bring to mind \"Captain Hook\". Not bad.\r\n\r\nI wonder if Disney
    would complain? You see how we are running out of good names...\r\n\r\nCan you
    use \"Peter Pan\" or \"Little Mermaid\". How about \"Howdy Doody\"... that's been
    off the air for a millennium.\r\n\r\nI loved that show as a kid... It's Howdy
    Doody Time... it's howdy doody time!...it's howdy..."
  created: '2011-12-07 19:56:30'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "And for all those inclined to watch...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DIslhp9vqqw"
  created: '2011-12-07 20:01:52'
- author:
    name: thisanthrope
  body: I think this is much ado about nothing, given the difference in spelling I
    think its a bunch of graphic people doing our best (terrible) legal analysis.
    You'll be fine to keep the font in it's original name. You'd think the smarmy
    requests that you "go to google" would have resulted in their having gone to google
    and seen just how common the use of 'Metalica' is over a variety of formats, you
    will be fine to keep the name.
  created: '2011-12-07 20:08:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can see a lot of illegal stuff on Google,\r\nthat doesn't make it a good
    idea to not look\r\nfor a better name.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-07 20:16:54'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">thisanthrope...I appreciate your comment and reasoning. Many others would
    agree with you as well.\r\n\r\nBut, we live in a world of 'law' and even scarier...'lawyers'.
    Who needs the aggravation? Not me!\r\n\r\nBy the way, that's me... the 3rd kid
    on the left, second row of video.\r\n\r\nHaha, just kidding. I'm not that old.\r\n\r\nNot
    yet..."
  created: '2011-12-07 20:20:25'
- author:
    name: thisanthrope
  body: no, but looking on Google shows you the wide breadth of companies and products
    who use a similar or identical name without consequences. I'm not talking about
    the 15 yr. old boy in a Metallica cover band on google but the companies, awards,
    etc. that have been vetted by their legal departments. And like I said, I didn't
    bring up google, just turned it around on the people who used it.
  created: '2011-12-07 21:00:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Could you point out some of those?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-07 21:22:50'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Hey, I just came across an interesting link on the pros and cons of using
    certain names (whether they be for a company or otherwise):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.thenameinspector.com/10-name-types/\r\n\r\nI
    really like category  7 and 9 down the list... \"made up\" names like....\r\n\r\nBebo\r\nMeebo\r\nOdeo\r\nOokles\r\nPlaxo\r\nQumana\r\nSimpy\r\nZimbra
    (taken from a Talking Heads song based on a nonsense Dada poem)\r\n\r\nHaha. Okay,
    this is going to be my \"go-to\" place for getting font names from now on.\r\n\r\nDoes
    anyone want to buy \"Plaxo Bold\"...oh, I really like this one... \"Odeo Oblique\".
    This is great stuff.\r\n\r\nHey, some other good ones...\"Bix\", \"Kiko\", \"Jajah\"
    and \"Guba\". I love it.\r\n\r\nMaybe picking a font name isn't that hard after
    all :-)"
  created: '2011-12-07 21:34:06'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "I have heard that in some places...\r\n\r\n1. Proper names can not be laid
    claim to.\r\n2. Same with names of places and (major?) geographical features.\r\n3.
    You can use your own name on your own products.\r\n\r\nNo doubt this varies between
    legislations.\r\n\r\nSome towns chose their official typeface because, hey, it's
    got our name."
  created: '2011-12-08 14:30:38'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: "I love \"Plaxo.\" It works with the font. \r\n\r\nBut to get back to the
    original debate, one of the most respected and influential alternative rock bands
    on the current music scene -- Radiohead -- stole their name from the title of
    a 1986 Talking Heads song. Catherine Wheel (the band) lifted its name from the
    title of a 1981 Twyla Tharp dance piece. Even the Rolling Stones riffed their
    name from an old Muddy Waters song. I'm sure there are many other examples of
    this kind of artistic \"homage.\" \r\n\r\nI'm not sure what the legal precedent
    might be if you employ the name \"Metalica\" for a font family that could never
    be confused with a metal band -- especially since you've spelled your family with
    one \"L\" and the band spells its name with two. But if you like the name, you
    might consider consulting an intellectual property attorney before abandoning
    it.\r\n\r\n~ K."
  created: '2011-12-08 19:19:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026Catherine Wheel (the band) lifted its name from the title of a
    1981 Twyla Tharp dance piece\u2026>em>\r\n<em>\u2026Even the Rolling Stones riffed
    their name from an old Muddy Waters song.</em>\r\n\r\nBut they weren't  neologisms,
    it was a clich\xE9 when Muddy used it (a rolling stone gathers no moss), and catherine
    wheel was a firework, among other things, and originally a saint\u2019s martyrdom.\r\n\r\nMetallica
    is an invented b(r)and name.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-08 20:08:56'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: "Metallica is an invented b(r)and name. >em>\r\n\r\nIt's also spelled differently
    and in a completely different market. On the other hand, \"Radiohead\" is an invented
    word, taken from a copyrighted song title.\r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting that Mr.
    Kaczun is free and clear regarding the use of the word, only that similar examples
    exist and it may be worth exploring.\r\n\r\n~ K."
  created: '2011-12-08 20:48:51'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Metallica is an invented b(r)and name.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually it\u2019s
    the feminine adjective for \u201Cmetallic\u201D in Italian. So not a neologism
    either.\r\n\r\nAnd about the names in the list linked by Alex: if it isn\u2019t
    already clear, they\u2019re all already used websites/webservices names."
  created: '2011-12-08 22:12:54'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: The results of a quick Google search of Metalica -- with one "L" -- reveal
    an assortment of companies from all over the world. It seems to me that if there
    was a legitimate issue with the name, it would be with one of them -- not with
    a heavy metal band that spells the word differently.
  created: '2011-12-09 01:07:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Putting \"metalica\" into Google just gives Metallica links.\r\nPutting \"metalica
    -metallica\" brings up pages related simply\r\nto the fact that \"metalica\" means
    \"metallic\" in Castillian.\r\n\r\nSo, to repeat: please give some links revealing
    this \"wide breadth\r\nof companies and products who use a similar or identical
    name\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-09 01:14:24'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "What this all comes down to... is...that in just a few more years... we are
    all screwed.\r\n\r\nForget about any good names... there won't be any names left.
    Period.\r\n\r\nI can't even use made up names... Plaxo, Odeo, Bix, Simpy... because
    someone used it already for a website. Gimme a break.\r\n\r\nJust look at some
    of the recent font names on myfonts.\r\n\r\nSet Fire To The Rain, You Want To
    Bring Me Down, God Gave Me You... these font names sound like titles to a song.\r\n\r\nI
    probably couldn't even use something like \"The Big Bad Metalica Machine\". Oh,
    it has the word like \"Metallica\" in it.\r\n\r\nThat's a no, no. Okay, I give
    up.\r\n\r\nI'm remaking these 5 fonts and I'm going to use \"Darkblade\" as a
    name.\r\n\r\nGood enough. Case closed.\r\n\r\nBack to work making more fonts.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I will call them, however, only God knows... "
  created: '2011-12-09 02:09:21'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: "In response to hrant's inquiry, here are three:\r\n\r\nhttp://metalica.bloombiz.com/\r\n\r\nhttps://snf.stanford.edu/SNF/equipment/metalization-sputtering/metallica-sputter-system\r\n\r\nhttp://www.zacks.com/stock/news/59162/Tetra+Tech+Acquires+Metalica\r\n\r\nMr.
    Kaczun: whatever you call it, it's an interesting font family. Nice work.\r\n\r\n~
    K."
  created: '2011-12-09 16:47:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So, a Romanian hand-made goods co-operative formed 18 years before Metallica\r\nexisted,
    the nickname of a one-off, not-for-sale machine in a university basement,\r\nand
    a Latin-American engineering firm (which BTW appends \"Consultores\")\r\nthat
    specialized in mining (see my previous post) constitute a \"wide breadth of\r\ncompanies
    and products who use a similar or identical name\"? And honestly, how\r\nlong
    did it take you to dig up those lemons? Plus if your statement were even true,\r\nthen
    that's even less reason to use it since the potential for legal action is greater!\r\n\r\nYou
    know, most people (including myself) often fall into the wishful-thinking\r\ntrap
    that we have the freedom to name our stuff what we want, but it's simply\r\nnot
    true in this age.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-09 17:32:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I should point out that my original post to this thread was somewhat tongue-in-cheek.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    named a type after a movie (but not the band): Alphaville\r\n\r\n\u2026and after
    a novel (and perhaps the band): Softmachine (but \u201Ccleverly\u201D removed
    the word space!).\r\n\r\n\u2026and after another book: Eunoia\r\n\r\nSome typeface
    names where I added \u201C-ica\u201D to create a neologism: Morphica, Panoptica\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nBeaufort
    is not named after the cheese.\r\nBut \u201CCheese or Font\u201D might be a good
    source of names.\r\nGreater Albion, how about a taste of Wensleydale?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nPantera!\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-09 18:49:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "De Tomaso would sue you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-09 19:27:59'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "You know, I'm of the mind that as long as you are not developing a competing
    product, it's okay to use the name again.\r\n\r\n>KCH... you are right in a way,
    you can find examples splattered all over the internet with companies using similar
    names for different products. Some people are inclined to argue no matter what.
    I'm not saying it's right or wrong. The lawyers control that arena.\r\n\r\nYou
    really think that someone is going to get confused by a 'font' with the name 'Metalica'
    over the band in question.\r\n\r\nNo, I don't think so. But Ulrich has the time
    and money to sue whenever the mood suits him.\r\n\r\nSo, I'll stay clear of that
    one. As I said before, who needs the aggravation. Not me!\r\n\r\nAnd like Nick
    says... I've removed a space from a word, or concatenated two words, or named
    a font after a movie.\r\n\r\nWho really cares? Apparently only the people that
    want to make a federal case out of it.\r\n\r\nI wish that everyone would just
    apply a little more common sense, in matters of this nature.\r\n\r\nI could understand
    if someone in the type business named one of their font families \"Hairvetica\".\r\n\r\nThat
    would definitely cause some confusion, and that definitely would be wrong. However
    funny.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I've exhausted the topic. Time to move on. It has been an
    interesting discussion. Thank you all."
  created: '2011-12-09 19:57:47'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "More likely the lawsuit coming from someone claiming to represent Dimebag
    Darrell and his band. Yes, @hrant, there is a hard rock band named Pantera.\r\n\r\nAt
    least it wasn&rsquo;t [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NiwqRSCWw2g|Sepultura]]
    &ndash; in which case he might have had Max Cavalera hollering something distorted
    beyond understanding into his ear.\r\n\r\nOr maybe [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vtjksfgCp0I|T&yacute;r]]
    and getting rocked by Heathens instead?\r\n\r\nYou can also find Biohazard, Dimmu
    Borgir and Stryper, not to forget some of the good ones: [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JX3TDWDOBPA|Iron
    Maiden]], [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JXhu9VGFIn8|Nazareth]], [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DqgCjeddPvE|Saxon]],
    [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHoPYLQvnQM|Slade]]... Oh dear... the CD rack
    is winking at me..."
  created: '2011-12-09 20:05:04'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: "Respectfully and without resorting to \"wishful thinking,\" the band spells
    its made up name differently than Mr Kaczun spells his made up name. The two are
    unrelated -- they're in different product categories. Mr. Kaczun implies no connection
    to the band, heavy metal or any genre of music whatsoever. With all of that said,
    you're certain that litigation would be inevitable? What would the basis of this
    suit be, that your made-up word for a product is similar to our (different) made-up
    word in an unrelated product category? I'm not a lawyer, but that seems a bit
    flimsy.\r\n\r\nAs Mr. Rowan points out, there is a band named Pantera. There's
    also a font named Carouselambra, an invented word that's also the title of a Led
    Zeppelin song. The song predates the font by several decades.\r\n\r\nHappy holidays,
    everyone.\r\n\r\n~ K."
  created: '2011-12-09 23:41:48'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Why not search the database below? Looks OK to use. With \"Metallica\" there
    are 56 records, many of them live, looks bad.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/metalica_6575.png]"
  created: '2011-12-10 13:10:42'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: Or <a href="http://tess2.uspto.gov/bin/showfield?f=doc&state=4001:hnpqc2.8.1"><strong>Metalika</strong></a>.
  created: '2011-12-10 13:36:23'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: Here is what I thought you would see:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/metalika_6212.jpg]
  created: '2011-12-11 02:47:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I said, my original post was tongue-in-cheek, as Metallica, the band,
    has a reputation for litigation, which has been parodied before now.\r\n\r\nAfter
    all, they sued Guerlain over a perfume, and won. At least, that\u2019s what I
    read on the interweb.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-11 04:07:57'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Nick> I have always found your comments helpful, informative, entertaining
    and thought-provoking.\r\n\r\nBut, sometimes, especially at the top of this post,
    first reply... Expect a call from Mr. Ulrich's lawyer\u2026\r\n\r\nI almost fell
    off my chair.\r\n\r\nI had no idea what you were talking about. Nor, who this
    'Ulrich' guy was or anything.\r\n\r\nIt was only after I got an email from someone
    else offering more background information and pointing out the similarity of my
    font name to the band 'Matallica' did I get the full scope of the issues.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are going to say something... please say it in a way that is instantly understandable.
    I would find this more helpful. Thanks again for the heads up in the matter. Much
    appreciated.\r\n\r\nYou are right, I've done some checking, apparently this band
    does have a notorious reputation for suing anyone over it's b(r)and name.\r\n\r\nI
    guess what this all comes down to, is that we all have to educate ourselves more
    with this sort of thing, and come to a general consensus when it's okay to incorporate
    someone else's trademarked 'name' into your new product, even unrelated, and when
    it's best to stay clear.\r\n\r\nI certainly have learned a lot from this thread...
    thank you all.\r\n\r\nThere are however, no clear guidelines in the matter.\r\n\r\nIt's
    this 'grey area' that can get us into trouble. I think we all have been bitten
    by this, at one-time-or-another.\r\n\r\nName carefully..."
  created: '2011-12-11 17:26:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It was only after I got an email ....\r\n\r\nYou know about Google, right?\r\n\r\n>
    If you are going to say something... please say\r\n> it in a way that is instantly
    understandable.\r\n\r\nThen *I* would fall off my chair out of boredom.\r\nObvious
    is dead.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-11 18:34:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry Alex, wasn't trying to scare you, but the wit (such as it is) of my
    comment would have been lost if I had spelled it out.\r\n\r\nBTW, props for the
    face, always good to see inventive, original work with nice details."
  created: '2011-12-11 18:45:11'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "If you're worried about trademark infringement, I'd name it '<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Problem_with_Popplers\">Zitzler</a>'.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-12-12 17:53:46'
date: '2011-12-06 01:48:13'
files:
- filename: Metalica_poster_02.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Metalica_poster_02.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Just Released_Metalica

---
