---
author:
  name: blank
body: "I am drafting an essay about ways that Adobe Creative Suite\u2019s design hampers
  designers, teachers, and students. I plan to cover problems such as:\r\n\u2022 the
  m\xE9lange of different, and bad, bezier editing tools through the suite\r\n\u2022
  poorly located and inconsistent OpenType feature menus\r\n\u2022\_inconsistent export
  dialogues across platforms\r\n\u2022 the random and almost incomprehensible UI of
  Adobe Acrobat\r\n\u2022 Indesign CS4, 5, and 5.5 having unnecessary version incompatibility
  with older versions\r\n\r\nI am only interested in writing about glaring flaws that
  slow down workflow, require multiple applications to be combined for simple functionality,
  hamper cross-platform workflows. I am especially interested in problems that hamper
  teaching students to use basic functionality of applications. I do not want to just
  air my personal gripes. So before I proceed I want to know if other designers, teachers,
  and students have found issues that consistently waste time and cause problems over
  months or years."
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>\u2022 Indesign CS4, 5, and 5.5 having unnecessary version incompatibility
    with older versions</cite>\r\n\r\nCan you give an example of this? (I'm assuming
    you are talking about backward compatibility, opening older documents in the newer
    version. Expecting <em>forward</em> compatibility for the complicated structure
    a fully laid-out and formatted document is, is way, way too naive.)"
  created: '2011-12-08 18:52:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I haven't \"upgraded\" my original CS, since developing (in the early 1990s)
    a philosophy of resisting \"upgrades\" by the digital oligarchs, which I consider
    to be an unwarranted and onerous form of professional taxation.\r\n\r\nAs a teacher,
    this can be embarrassing, as I occasionally have to ask students how to do simple
    things in their \"computer labs\", which have the latest versions of apps, that
    work differently than the version I have in my studio.\r\n\r\nBeing a part-time
    teacher, I haven't bothered to pursue the idea of asking my employer to pay for
    my software \"upgrades\", or arrange a refresher course, neither of which would
    be feasible."
  created: '2011-12-08 19:13:23'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "The only issue I still have with the Suite is in Illustrator, where the outline
    stroke/expand appearance has been broken since CS3. (Too many extraneous and overlapping
    points are created.)\r\n\r\nI'm standing still at home, but we get updated regularly
    at work. As someone who uses Illustrator every day, I have to say each new version
    has been a real boost to productivity. I really miss CS5 when I'm working from
    home (CS3). \r\n\r\nSticking point for me is Acrobat, which I've been having to
    use more often. Really not the same type of environment. It seems like they are
    trying to make it feel familiar to Microsoft Office users."
  created: '2011-12-08 19:30:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Related... http://typophile.com/node/32683 '
  created: '2011-12-08 19:35:33'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> unnecessary version incompatibility with older versions\r\n\r\nOn many
    occasions I've wished that InDesign had better backwards compatibility, but I'm
    not sure that \"unnecessary\" is the appropriate word. I used to know the lead
    programmer for a major software application and he said that backwards compatibility
    was a problem with many applications and that insisting on backwards compatibility
    would often force compromises in other areas (like new features) which users wouldn't
    like.\r\n\r\nIn any event, if you know your files are also also going to be worked
    on by someone else, it's always best to both use the same version. That's why
    I keep the last 3 versions of InDesign on my Mac.  "
  created: '2011-12-08 19:37:41'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "My biggest gripe is with Photoshop CS5 (dunno if this was also in 4 as I
    skipped it).\r\nImage windows overlap toolbars, so accessing any menu, feature
    or tool is impossible without first moving, or resizing all of the open windows.
    In CS3 all image windows went nicely underneath. I don't like tabs, as I am used
    to dragging layers, selections etc. from one window to another, but now can't
    use the new overlapping windows either.\r\n\r\nGood thing I kept CS3 installed."
  created: '2011-12-08 19:48:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Once again, not even a damn glyph palette in Photoshop!!!!\r\nThe inane opentype
    UI that must have been designed by waring factions of the Drug Mafia is a topper!!!\r\n\r\nI
    also like your list above:\r\n\r\n\"\u2022 poorly located and inconsistent OpenType
    feature menus\r\n\u2022 inconsistent export dialogues across platforms\r\n\u2022
    the random and almost incomprehensible UI of Adobe Acrobat\r\n\u2022 Indesign
    CS4, 5, and 5.5 having unnecessary version incompatibility with older versions\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-08 20:06:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I too am a little behind in upgrading (but working daily with the suite),
    so maybe some thing were fixed in the mean time.\r\nI find the difference in shortcuts
    to be bewildering (it goes without saying that Acrobat is the worst in this respect:
    for example, why on Earth they choose <kbd>ctrl</kbd> as a modifier key for zoom
    out?).\r\nAlso, Illustrator,* which I use rarely (and that made it even worst),
    has very limited contextual menus for basic operations like copy & paste and then
    there\u2019s the \u201Cinverted\u201D y (but this seems to be fixed in CS5: http://blogs.adobe.com/infiniteresolution/2010/05/ruler_updates_in_illustrator_c.html).\r\n\r\n*
    I think this quote by Todd Dominey from the time of Adobe\u2019s acquisition of
    Macromedia is still somewhat relevant: \u201CWill Illustrator and Freehand be
    combined as Frustrator?\u201D"
  created: '2011-12-08 20:07:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "My main gripe is that Freehand isn't a part of it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-08 22:12:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em> Indesign CS4, 5, and 5.5 having unnecessary version incompatibility
    with older versions</em>\r\n\r\nHave you tried exporting as an INDD file from
    the newer version and opening in an older version? Is this functionality not good
    enough in terms of compatibility?"
  created: '2011-12-08 22:23:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Have you tried exporting as an INDD file from the newer version and
    opening in an older version? Is this functionality not good enough in terms of
    compatibility?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat version of Indesign allows this? I have had
    to export one format in CS4 to CS3, a different format to go from CS5 to CS4,
    and going from CS5 to CS3 seems to require stepping through CS5 and CS4. I understand
    why the newer functions of CS4 and CS5 cannot be saved directly back to older
    versions, but it is really nuts that I cannot just open older versions, make minor
    edits, and then save the same file without changing to the newer format. This
    has been a real problem with teaching because I and my students end up moving
    between all three versions of Indesign at school/work/home machines. "
  created: '2011-12-08 22:32:40'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Maybe Paul was talking about INDX and not INDD.\r\n\r\nThe problems I find
    in any CS version since the first one:\r\n\r\n1. bad, incomplete, and inconsistent
    suport for OpenType between apps;\r\n2. different UI approach for type handling;\r\n3.
    the lack of glyph palette in PS;\r\n4. almost hidden menus to control OT features;\r\n5.
    text copied from ID is not fully recognized in PS;\r\n6. Adobe vector tools are
    inferior to the ones in Xara or FLS."
  created: '2011-12-08 23:04:37'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: Hmm come to think of it, if it was just up to me, I'd still be running Illustrator
    9 with Photoshop 7. Hardly ever use the "modern" features. The only exception
    would have to be InDesign, as each successive version does introduce a number
    of things I wished were possible in prior releases. I don't think I've ever updated
    a suit on my own volition, the change always comes from outside as folks start
    passing up files that the antiquated software can no longer handle.
  created: '2011-12-09 00:59:09'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: I just want to be able to select the handles of nodes in Illustrator and move
    them with the arrow keys. After using fontlab, trying to make tiny adjustments
    to vector shapes in Illustrator is like trying to paint the Mona Lisa with a paint
    roller in the back of a moving bus.
  created: '2011-12-09 04:25:40'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Nick, as a teacher Adobe will give you 80% off the sticker price.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-09 04:37:31'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "My gripe is one of ownership and not so much functionality, although I agree
    with most of your list.\r\n\r\nI have PS 7 on disk, Illy 10 also on disk ... back
    in the day I paid for and own them both ... outright. I can install those disks
    anytime I wish, anywhere I wish too. Why? Because I paid for the software - that's
    why.\r\n\r\nAdobe don't allow that anymore. \r\n\r\nToday's Adobe won't sell you
    a disk that you can install whenever - however many times you want. You don't
    own today's Adobe software ... you own a limited install license. You pay thousands
    of dollars of your hard earned money for a limited ... privilege. \r\n\r\nLimited
    to the number of installations. And now, limited to the number of upgrade versions
    too ... try upgrading Photoshop 7 - lol!\r\n\r\nI could go on ... but it would
    just get ugly.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n  \r\n "
  created: '2011-12-09 08:50:12'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "The poor OT interface (or even lacking in PS) is certainly annoying. The
    Illustrator OT palette would a nice start, if not complete. Still no kerning table
    feature in InDesign. Acrobat is certainly not very intuitive, and actually got
    worse with the last version, altough it is more stable than the CS2 Version I
    used to have, which crashedvery often. Another annoying thing is that that consistently
    embed less fonts with each new version... No more Jenson, no more Arno or Garamond
    Premier. No fonts with optical sizes... I guess they have successfully topped
    the market now and don\u2019t need to pursuade people with these goodies anymore.
    Adobe\u2019s arrogance is what annoys me most I guess, though the individual programs
    certainly are great, I could not do my work without them."
  created: '2011-12-09 10:10:23'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Nick, as a teacher Adobe will give you 80% off the sticker price.\r\n\r\nYes,
    but the teacher pricing does not work on upgrades. So the price for a new educational
    version winds up being about the same as a normal upgrade. That's why I also tend
    to skip the alternate version of CS. It costs almost a grand to get a new version
    of the CS Master Collection."
  created: '2011-12-09 15:20:10'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Don: if you have stuck to the even numbered versions, you are about to receive
    a nasty surprise. Apparently lots of people skipped single versions, so Adobe's
    marketing team found a way around that. Starting with CS6, you can no longer upgrade
    from two or more version old; only <em>one</em> version will get you a discount.\r\n\r\nMy
    opinion? A nasty, nasty, nasty move, only devised to generate lots of cash on
    a short notice (they are pressing people to upgrade <em>now</em> to CS5) but utterly
    alienating heaps of clients in the long run who do <em>not</em> want, need, or
    can pay to upgrade Every-Single-New-Version."
  created: '2011-12-09 19:03:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Apparently Quark XPress is still in business, despite the graphics industry\u2019s
    desire to submit to an Adobe monopoly."
  created: '2011-12-09 19:51:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'To be fair, Quark had and acted like a monopoly long before Adobe ever did. '
  created: '2011-12-09 20:37:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>I just want to be able to select the handles of nodes in Illustrator
    and move them with the arrow keys. After using fontlab, trying to make tiny adjustments
    to vector shapes in Illustrator is like trying to paint the Mona Lisa with a paint
    roller in the back of a moving bus.</em>\r\n\r\nSelect the line segment. Press
    your arrow key of choice."
  created: '2011-12-09 20:58:22'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "frode, I've done that but it's still not as accurate as I prefer. Maybe I'm
    just really picky about these things.\r\n\r\nI have to say, I'm very happy Adobe
    added paste in place to Illustrator CS5"
  created: '2011-12-10 03:34:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I do all my drawing in FontLab and paste it  into AI.
  created: '2011-12-10 04:03:38'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: If pressing the arrow key makes too big a change, just change the Keyboard
    Increment in Preferences to a smaller number.
  created: '2011-12-10 06:42:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Pressing a curve segment affects both handle at its ends, step clicking only
    one handle and knowing the exact number of nudges is quite another issue.
  created: '2011-12-10 07:50:34'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: dezcom, That's what I've been doing (drawing in fontlab and then pasting into
    AI). I'm glad you understand my gripe.
  created: '2011-12-10 14:09:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: I just draw in Freehand and then export to AI. Drawing in FH and FL are nearly
    exactly the same.
  created: '2011-12-10 15:57:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: You need to draw at 1000 upm in AI as well. Try copying an "o" from Fontlab
    and use that as basis, size-wise.
  created: '2011-12-10 16:13:23'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ Don, <cite>Yes, but the teacher pricing does not work on upgrades. So the
    price for a new educational version winds up being about the same as a normal
    upgrade. </cite>\r\n\r\nWas their marketing department a bunch of crack dealers
    in a previous life?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-12 05:32:08'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Was their marketing department a bunch of crack dealers in a previous
    life?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, they were marketers.\r\nOne problem with Adobe is that
    marketers are spreading throughout (see: http://daringfireball.net/linked/2011/11/08/adobe-layoffs)"
  created: '2011-12-12 12:40:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Looks like Adobe is going the way of Quark, Riccardo.
  created: '2011-12-12 16:04:31'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Don: if you have stuck to the even numbered versions, you are about to
    receive a nasty surprise. \r\n\r\nYou missed the other part of my comment. I don't
    buy upgrades. I buy new educational packages, which cost about the same.\r\n\r\nI
    hadn't heard that Adobe was going to the continual upgrade policy. I suspected
    it when they started limiting the number of versions you could upgrade from.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is, the advantages in upgrading are much less than they once were. The difference
    between PS 4 and 5 was massive, and you were crazy not to upgrade ... even if
    you had to buy a new computer. Now only minor improvements are appearing.\r\n\r\nAdobe
    might find this policy backfires on them, and people will just stop upgrading.
    I mean, carpenters don't buy a new hammer every year when the new models come
    out. And plumbers don't get a new pipe wrench every year. (Which is not to say
    that graphic designers are high paid craftsmen of that type, but you get the idea.)\r\n\r\nDon"
  created: '2011-12-14 03:41:55'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: I hate that you need the ME edition or special plugins to type right-to-left
    languages in InDesign. That should be a built-in feature of the standard version,
    along with support for Asian languages and any other writing systems that don't
    go left to right, top to bottom. (I know about the world-ready composer, but it's
    so inaccessible as to be unusable.) Also, InDesign should have real tools for
    math typography built in. And, honestly, music typography, but I know that's a
    stretch. It is supposed to be a typesetting program, though, right? Why can't
    it typeset everything?
  created: '2011-12-14 04:25:19'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> carpenters don't buy a new hammer every \r\n> year when the new models
    come out. \r\n\r\nI'm sympathetic to your viewpoint, but the analogy has some
    flaws.\r\n\r\nI put off upgrading to CS 5.5, but recently a corporate client sent
    me an InDesign 5.5 file and asked me to make some changes to it. My options were
    1) upgrade to 5.5, or 2) tell my client I didn't have 5.5, look like a cheapskate
    who couldn't afford to keep his software current, and probably lose the job.\r\n\r\nSo
    I upgraded.\r\n\r\nIf you work in a collaborative environment in which you share
    native files with co-workers, clients and vendors, it's difficult to avoid upgrading
    periodically. I look at it as part of the cost of doing business. \r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 05:17:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nI also used to get files from clients that were done in such
    an old version of software that they would not even run on new equipment.  It
    was easier to do the pages from scratch ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-14 05:31:00'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "James and Igor,\r\n\r\nSorry, I meant INX/IDML:\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/indesignsdk/2009/03/idml_file_types.html\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.idmllib.com/2010/05/23/indesign-cs5-and-the-missing-inx-export/"
  created: '2011-12-14 18:23:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If you work in a collaborative environment in which you share native
    files with co-workers, clients and vendors, it's difficult to avoid upgrading
    periodically.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree on a professional level, but this is a serious
    problem in schools. Schools don\u2019t have the resources to update their labs
    for every release, but students cannot buy older versions. In some cases I have
    students working in class on CS4, at home on 5.5, and at work on 5. It gets really
    bad with the Windows users, because Illustrator for Windows does not the dialogue
    to save for older versions like the Mac version does."
  created: '2011-12-14 23:11:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Regarding the <em>blog.idmllib.com/.../indesign-cs5-and-the-missing-inx-export/</em>
    link and the steps it describes for CS5 users to exchange data with CS3 users,
    this is what James Puckett complained about: You need at least two versions of
    CS. First, from CS5 to CS4 via IDML. Then, from CS4 to CS3 via INX (and to CS2
    with an additional hack). At least one user needs both CS5 and CS4, or both CS4
    and CS3.\r\n\r\nRelated, I cannot say that I am particularly amused when reading
    an announcement like <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/conversations/2011/11/adobe-creative-cloud-and-adobe-creative-suite-new-choices-for-customers.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">this</a>, in particular:\r\n\r\n<cite>For customers who prefer
    to remain on the current licensing model, [...] In order to qualify for upgrade
    pricing when CS6 releases, customers will need to be on the latest version of
    our software (either CS5 or CS5.5 editions). If our customers are not yet on those
    versions, we\u2019re offering a 20% discount through December 31, 2011 which will
    qualify them for upgrade pricing when we release CS6.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is not
    an 'offer' except maybe in a mafia sense of the term \u2013 an offer you better
    don't reject: Either you upgrade to the current version. Or you are excluded from
    future ones. Please correct me if I got this wrong.\r\n\r\nSuch bits and pieces,
    technical obstacles on the one hand, licensing obstacles on the other hand, make
    it difficult for me to remain a loyal Adobe customer even though I like the applications.
    (Same for Apple, by the way, just to indicate that this is not about anti-Adobe
    sentiments.)"
  created: '2011-12-15 11:09:38'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: '***ALL THE INCONSISTENCIES BETWEEN ALL THEIR APPLICATIONS. BIG PERIOD!***'
  created: '2011-12-17 05:35:58'
date: '2011-12-08 18:40:30'
node_type: forum
title: Air your Adobe Creative Suite gripes

---
