---
author:
  name: Alex Kaczun
  picture: 114613
body: "I'm in the process of creating an extended family of fonts.\r\n\r\nOne of the
  variables I'm introducing is a substantially larger lower case x-height.\r\n\r\nQuestion:
  Besides calling the \"larger x-height\" font \"TypefaceName_6 point\", or distinguishing
  \ between text and display, what would be a better approach to an overall naming
  convention for the entire series?\r\n\r\nAny ideas appreciated. Thank you."
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Emigre added \"XL' to their [[http://www.emigre.com/EFfeatureMEoverview.php|\"Eaves\"
    versions with taller x-heights]].\r\n\r\nNot saying it's the best solution, but
    just throwing it out as a precedent."
  created: '2011-12-14 22:17:48'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "If you would like to give hints for intended use, you could apply a naming
    scheme akin of that of \u201Coptical sizes\u201D (caption, titling, small text,
    etc.). Otherwise, if you like to confuse your customers, you could take the New
    Fournier BP\u2019s approach (http://swisstypefaces.com/fonts/new-fournier-bp/
    ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-14 22:20:16'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">eliason... Thank you for pointing out the 'Emigre' solution. I really like
    the 'XL' extension solution.\r\n\r\nShort and sweet. This would be my first choice.
    Trying to keep the length of font naming to a minimum. Thanks.\r\n\r\n>riccardo...
    I agree with your point of view, for obvious reasons. 'Small Text' seems like
    a good choice. Thanks.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone else have any ideas? I would like a
    general consensus.\r\n\r\nSomething that would hold up well going forward. I'm
    looking for a really elegant solution. Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-14 22:59:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So the x-height isn't the only thing changing? Because it can't\r\nbe if
    this is supposed to be a different size \"master\" (as they're\r\noften called).
    And if it is in fact a size master I would follow the\r\nAdobe convention that
    Riccardo mentions.\r\n\r\nNow, if it is only the x-height changing and -hopefully-
    it's NOT\r\na size master deal, then I might use Emigre's \"XL\" convention.\r\n\r\nRelated:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/81755\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 23:06:21'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "What about \u201CBig Eyes\u201D? ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-14 23:08:35'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">So the x-height isn't the only thing changing?\r\n\r\nLet me clarify a bit
    more... I created an idea for a new serif font family.\r\n\r\nAfter mastering
    and testing, I decided that the x-height looked a bit too large overall, aesthetically.\r\n\r\nSo,
    I created an alternate version... proportionally smaller x-height, which allowed
    for taller ascenders and decenders.\r\n\r\nBasically, an 85% reduction, with some
    added weight to keep the color working well with the existing capitals.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I think both variations could work well together, or separately, under different
    typographic conditions, and depending on the copy size.\r\n\r\nSoooo, with this
    in mind, what would be best. Use something like 'XL' or call it 'Small Text'.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure which would be more proper. Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-14 23:41:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "If a movement to resurrect \"gros \u0153il\" is afoot, consider me on board!"
  created: '2011-12-14 23:42:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those sound like different masters: the large one for smaller text,\r\nthe
    other for larger text. So I would use \"Small\" or \"Caption\" for\r\nthe former,
    <strong>or</strong> \"Large\" or \"Display\" for the latter, depending.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-14 23:50:32'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9EJWa9V2Zg\r\n\r\nokay...now that's just
    wrong... aliens have indeed taken over human form!\r\n\r\nHide your children..."
  created: '2011-12-14 23:55:40'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">hrant... I like your solution!\r\n\r\nI'll call the larger lower case x-height
    font 'xxxx caption' (it works great for 14 point down to 6 point), and 'xxxx display'
    for the more conventional (normal x-height) , which will look better at 16 point
    and above. Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-15 00:01:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually in my book 14 is the max for text, and only for fonts with quite
    small\r\nx-heights. So I might call the first one \"xxxx\" and the second one
    \"xxxx Large\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-15 02:45:56'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Fedra\u2019s two versions are called \u201CA\u201D and \u201CB\u201D, the
    latter being the one with longer ascenders/descenders. "
  created: '2011-12-15 03:11:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Alex, how will everyone decode your names without a guide to your terms?
  created: '2011-12-15 05:05:42'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "IMO: When x-heights differ, that\u2019s two font(familie)s, not one family.
    A family can be used with intermingling \u2014 with different x-heights that would
    be awkward to say the least.\r\nMy advice: divide into two families, eg Fontname
    vs FontnameXL; subs: Fontname-Bold etc vs FontnameXL-Bold etc."
  created: '2011-12-15 13:07:07'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">David Berlow... Hi, I was hoping you would chime in. It's been a long time.\r\n\r\nExactly,
    that's precisely why I'm on 'typophile' trying to get a general consensus on this
    sort of thing.\r\n\r\nI think it's important that we all discuss and agree to
    proper naming conventions. If we don't. who will? Thanks.\r\n\r\nActually, now
    that I'm back into creating fonts full-time, I'm wrestling between all the things
    you can incorporate into OT fonts and dealing with the issues of extended families
    and proper naming conventions. There is a whole new bag-of-tricks, so to speak,
    that I'm worried about going forward. That's why I'm here to discuss with everyone.\r\n\r\nBack
    in the days, things where a lot easier. Now, much more complicated. Many times
    I'm just not sure which is the best way to proceed.\r\n\r\nI like Bert Vanderveen's
    suggestion, create 2 font families and call the larger x-height font 'XL'. Very
    elegant solution. I even like the 'XL' extension... could imply 'x-height Large'.
    Works for me.\r\n\r\nHowever, David, you are absolutely right, how is the user
    to know and decode without a guide to terms.\r\n\r\nI think we need to all be
    consistent in order to avoid 'user' confusion on terminology and other issues.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    we all need to talk and come up with an entire set of guidelines for this sort
    of thing.\r\n\r\nI for one would be very interested and appreciative of everyones
    input. Thank you all.\r\n\r\n>David, please link me directly (akaczun@verizon.net).
    I would like to get your email and reestablish a working relationship. I also
    have a few things to talk to you about personally. Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-15 14:34:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> with different x-heights that would be awkward to say the least.\r\n\r\nExcept,
    like I proposed in that other thread*,\r\nif the large one were used for emphasis...
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/81755\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-15 15:14:20'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">hrant, yes, I read through the other thread. Thanks. And, I like all your
    suggestions. You made many good points. The overall discussion was very interesting.
    But sadly, nothing was really resolved. Just some good ideas and no definitive
    set of guidelines to follow.\r\n\r\nAs you know, there are many variables that
    can change in an extended family of fonts.\r\n\r\nHere are some examples: (for
    general discussion)\r\n\r\n1) Weight\r\n2) Styles\u2014 Cursive or oblique, small
    caps, lining vs. old style figures (tabular & proportional).\r\n3) Swash, decorative
    capitals, special endings and alternate 'glyphs'.\r\n4) Condensed and expanded
    typeface variations.\r\n5) Optical axis\u2014(x-height, stem, hairline, serif
    lengths) overshoots and overall body proportion changes.\r\n6) Outline and other
    effect variations (stencil, distortions (graffiti), etc.)\r\n7) Where no man has
    gone before...\r\n\r\nFor weights, I like the numbering solutions... (25 Ultra
    Thin, 26 Ultra Thin Italic...95 Ultra Black, 96 Ultra Black Italic, etc.)\r\n\r\nBut,
    I have also seen type designers name their weights (200, 300, 400...900) and with
    variations like (200-A, 200-B, etc.)\r\n\r\nI like the numbering scheme, simple
    and elegant. Easy to understand.\r\n\r\nBut, shouldn't we all be using a 'naming
    template' or guidelines for just such things?\r\n\r\nI think the 'key' here is
    consistency. A standard 'code' that we should all go by, so that the user is not
    confused by all this new terminology.\r\n\r\nI do not want to reinvent the wheel,
    perhaps there already is a PDF guideline online for just this sort of thing.\r\n\r\nIf
    there is, please point me in the proper direction.\r\n\r\nIt would be great if
    we all had and used this 'common' naming scheme going forward.\r\n\r\nMaybe we
    can come up with 'extensions' that would properly tag all fonts with all variations
    listed above.\r\n\r\nThat would be great! Thanks all.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-15 16:14:02'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "This is my feeble attempt to come up with an overall 'font naming' scheme
    that could work for all of us.\r\n\r\n1) TypeFaceName 25, TypeFaceName 26... all
    the way to TypeFaceName 95, TypeFaceName 96\r\n\r\n15, 25, 35, 45, 55, 65, 75,
    85, 95 and 100 (allows for up to 10 weights in total). Hell, you could even continue
    upwards (115, 125) if needed. But I think '100' (10 weight categories) is a pretty
    generous weight progression scheme.\r\n\r\nNo need to add 'Ultra Thin...Ultra
    Thin Italic, etc. This numbering scheme has been successfully used by Neue Helvetica
    and other such font families. I think many users understand this numbering scheme
    (55 being the middle and regular or normal weight). Odd numbers for 'roman' and
    'even' (like 26, 36, 46, 56...) for cursive or oblique styles.\r\n\r\n2) As far
    as Condensed or Expanded variations on the family could be added as... TypeFaceName
    51 (could refer to Narrow), TypeFaceName 52 (Narrow Italic), etc. TypeFaceName
    53 (could refer to Condensed), TypeFaceName 54 (Condensed Italic). And, TypeFaceName
    57 (could refer to Expanded), TypeFaceName 58 (Expanded Italic), etc. TypeFaceName
    59 (could refer to Ultra Expanded), TypeFaceName 60 (Ultra Expanded Italic). Although,
    for the most part, most families would only include a Cond. and Expanded variation.
    But, there is room in this scheme for 'ultra' extreme width variations.\r\n\r\n3)
    An added extension for 'Swash' could be SW, an extension for 'Small Capitals\"
    could be Sc, Old Style Figures OsF, Decorative Ornamental Capitals DOC, Display
    could be DSP, Stencil could be STN, Outline could be OUT, Graffiti could be GRF,
    etc.\r\n\r\n4) Optical axis could have 'XL' for 'x-height Large\".\r\n\r\nI really
    think something like this makes a lot of sense.\r\n\r\nIt eliminates the problem
    with really long font names. FontLab has a maximum limit of 31 characters for
    a font name anyway.\r\n\r\nThis simplifies everything. You can add 'Where no man
    has gone before...variations' as WNMHGB or whatever.\r\n\r\nSo, a complete example
    incorporating a lot of this would look like...\r\n\r\nTypeFaceName 25 ScOsF XL\r\n\r\nShort
    and sweet! What do you all think? Is this a possible complete 'font naming' solution
    to all our problems going forward.\r\n\r\nAny and all other ideas welcome. Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-15 17:10:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I'm a big fan of systems myself. What I worry about\r\nis if it's too
    late, since too many -reputable- people do it\r\nso differently. But really, it's
    probably not too late.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-15 19:31:10'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">hrant,\u2014Yes, I agree, in an ideal world this should have been decided
    on from the beginning of OT format.\r\n\r\nBut, it's certainly never too late.
    Better late then never, as they say.\r\n\r\nAnyway, do you like this 'font naming'
    approach?\r\n\r\nAs an addition to what I said above, if you think about it, all
    the font names will line up beautifully, 'alpha-numerically' under the font menu.
    From lightest to heaviest, and everything in between. Very organized. That's why
    using numbering scheme is so good. No more 'font styles' not in order, and all
    over the place.\r\n\r\nFrom a users perspective, a welcome solution. I think,
    once users get use to the numbering for 'width', 'weight' and variations, it will
    become second-nature.\r\n\r\nAnyone else have any comments? Please... this is
    really important. Thank you all."
  created: '2011-12-15 20:54:09'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "The only other thing I'm also thinking about...\r\n\r\nIf you have a basic
    'skeleton' worked out for your font. A particular overall look.\r\n\r\nAnd you
    decide to change-it-up, so to speak.\r\n\r\nExamples, change the serifs on the
    same font (or, a variety of different serif styles), maybe you decide to round
    out the corners on yet another style variation... that sort of thing.\r\n\r\nDo
    you name all these font variations with the same main 'FamilyName'\u2014variation.\r\n\r\nOr,
    can this get too confusing to the user... although sharing similar overall appearance,
    the details can get really different.\r\n\r\nAnd, maybe better to change the 'FamilyName'
    completely, for each variation made?\r\n\r\nWhat would the general consensus be
    for this type of situation? I would be interest to hear your opinions on this
    matter, as well.\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2011-12-15 21:08:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "The system has its merits\u2026 But:\r\n- No system could ever account for
    all possible variations. Especially outside text families and type systems (a
    la Univers, which I think was the first to introduce the numbering scheme).\r\n-
    My ultralight is your hairline, is others\u2019 white. And this holds true for
    my 15 and your 15.\r\n- If 55 is regular and 56 is italic or oblique, what will
    happen if my font has both?\r\n- Acronyms aren\u2019t human friendly. And there
    are already too much acronyms in font names (or you do think foundries will abandon
    their prefixes just for the sake of tiding up our menus?).\r\n- I don\u2019t think
    XL is a good solution for large x-heigh. First of all is uppercase, then it looks
    something which is applied to the entire typeface, being mostly viewed as a size
    symbol. I would think it\u2019s the cut for clients that want to \u201Cmake the
    logo bigger!\u201D ;-)\r\n\r\nAll that said, sure a system could be useful, but
    I don\u2019t think you will find consensus. But you can start implementing it
    with your own fonts, encouraging other to adopt it. If it will make sense to them
    (as it did with Neue Helvetica), people will follow suit."
  created: '2011-12-15 21:34:28'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">riccard0\u2014 I realize getting general consensus from everyone is not
    realistic. I'm only hoping to offer a possible naming scheme for others to consider.\r\n\r\nI
    myself, plan to adopt this as practice going forward. Unless others have a more
    elegant overall solution, I need something to work with.\r\n\r\nI was only hoping
    that others might offer suggestions or modifications to what I propose.\r\n\r\nOthers,
    coming into the font business, from this point on... can decide on their own.\r\n\r\nNo
    harm done. In any event, something to consider.\r\n\r\nI also realize that weights
    will differ slightly from others, but I do not think this breaks this type of
    approach.\r\n\r\nThe user will have a general idea, looking down the menu of related
    numbers, what might work for him, in this application or another.\r\n\r\nIf not,
    he/she is free to try another number and view results in text copy being set.
    That's what they are use to doing anyway. No?\r\n\r\nI agree with you that 'XL'
    may be ambiguous, a bit, for x-height variation. Maybe something else like ''xhLg\"
    would be more appropriate.\r\n\r\nIn any case, these suggestions are only guidelines.
    I'm more interested in feedback about the general overall approach using 'numerical'
    representation for weights and body size variations.\r\n\r\nAm I the only one
    that to see merit in this type of scheme? Still waiting to hear from others on
    the matter. Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-15 21:54:43'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">dberlow\u2014Alex, how will everyone decode your names without a guide to
    your terms?\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid, I plan to start using this type of overall naming
    scheme going forward. I need something all-inclusive.\r\n\r\nBut, you are right,
    I need to educate the user and help them 'decode' by providing a general guide
    to this numbering system.\r\n\r\nThere is established precedence, of sorts, for
    this already. I'm simply expanding on the 'Neue Helvetica' numerical system to
    include additional factors.\r\n\r\nI will include a 'readme' file, with every
    font I sell outlining this 'alpha-numeric' system.\r\n\r\nHopefully, they will
    find it useful, and with time, easier to understand. And, if successful, others
    may follow.\r\n\r\n\r\nIf you build it... they will come"
  created: '2011-12-15 22:42:58'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I\u2019s sorry to again chiming in. I would just add that there already exists
    a different number scheme, limited to weight, which is the one from 100 to 900
    that could be used to set the CSS font-weight property and it\u2019s used by some
    foundries on some of their fonts, most notably Jos Buivenga\u2019s Museos."
  created: '2011-12-16 01:01:20'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: ">25...95, 100...900\u2014works for me. \r\n\r\nOne less digit is simpler.\r\n\r\nWhat
    was the advantage of going to 3-digits?\r\n\r\nMy main concern is incorporating
    the 'width' (adding condensed and expanded) numbering system into the mix.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    resolving the other type(s) of variations mentioned above.\r\n\r\nAn, all inclusive,
    solution. That would cover just about everything. Thanks."
  created: '2011-12-16 01:24:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "X for x-height. L for large. For all I care it could be LX\u2026 in contrast
    to t-shirts etc."
  created: '2011-12-16 05:25:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">If you build it... they will come\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2011-12-17 14:43:27'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Okay... I built it! This is the system I plan to use going forward.\r\n\r\nEveryone
    is welcome to use, in-part, or as a whole. I think it's elegant and all-inclusive.
    Easy to understand and expand on.\r\n\r\n'Font names' remain as short in length
    as possible, and offer a lot of information about what is contained in font.\r\n\r\nI
    personally, do not think that adding a brief description of weight or 'body proportion'
    is needed, but others may want to add this as well. I think that the 'user' will
    quickly get the idea, by the numbers alone, if font is 'regular weight', or 'condensed',
    or 'expanded' by the numbers alone. Maybe, down-the-road, we can start to drop
    this reference in order to minimize the font names still further. Anyway, a good
    start. General consensus, please?\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\nTypeFaceName
    53 Cd Rm\r\nTypeFaceName 54 Cd It\r\n\r\nTypeFaceName 55 Rm\r\nTypeFaceName 56
    It\r\n\r\nTypeFaceName 57 Exp Rm\r\nTypeFaceName 58 Exp It\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nAll
    the other weights (in the family) can be numbered as indicated above.\r\n\r\n25
    Ult Thin\r\n26 Ult Thin It\r\n\r\n35 Thin\r\n36 Thin It\r\n\r\n45 Lgt\r\n46 Lgt
    It\r\n\r\n65 Med\r\n66 Med It\r\n\r\n75 Bld\r\n76 Bld It\r\n\r\n85 Blk\r\n85 Blk
    It\r\n\r\n95 Ult Blk\r\n96 Ult Blk It\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nThese
    other 'useful' acronyms can be concatenated to end of 'font names':\r\n\r\nSmall
    Caps= 'Sc'\r\nOld Style Figures= 'OsF'\r\nSm Caps & OsFigues= 'ScOsF\r\n\r\nDisplay=
    'Dsp'\r\nCaption= 'Cpt''\r\n\r\nSwash= 'Swh'\r\nOrnamental Caps= 'OrC'\r\n\r\nOutline=
    'Out'\r\nInline= 'Inl'\r\n\r\nStencil= 'Stn'\r\nGraffiti= 'Grf'\r\n\r\nOptical
    Axis (Large x-height)= 'Lxh'\r\n\r\nIf anyone can think of any others, we can
    add to this list.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about adding acronyms for 'extended language'
    support.\r\n\r\nBut, that can easily be done... example...\r\n\r\nCentral European=
    'CE'\r\n\r\nGreek= 'Grk'\r\n\r\nCyrillic= 'Cry'\r\n\r\netc...\r\n\r\nLooking forward
    to everyones opinion on the subject. Thank you all."
  created: '2011-12-17 18:47:16'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "****THIS IS A TEST OF THE INTERNATIONAL FONT NAMING SYSTEM****\r\n****THIS
    IS JUST A TEST****\r\n****IF YOU SEE THIS, YOU ARE INSTRUCTED TO DROP EVERYTHING
    YOU ARE DOING, AND ANSWER THE FOLLOWING QUESTION****\r\n\r\nWhat does this mean....\r\n\r\n\r\nTypeFaceName
    42 CE ScOsf Out\r\n\r\n\r\nIf you answered...\r\n\r\n\r\n'TypeFaceName' Light
    Narrow Italic w/Central European Small Caps and Old Style Figures Outline (font)\r\n\r\n\r\nYou
    are correct.... and you win the big prize!"
  created: '2011-12-17 19:20:35'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: what about naming it "tall" ?
  created: '2011-12-22 14:45:32'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: '"Tall" would suggest higher ascenders, not just larger x-height.'
  created: '2011-12-22 15:21:02'
date: '2011-12-14 21:42:22'
node_type: forum
title: Naming fonts with different x-heights

---
