---
author:
  name: Joshbuckler
  picture: 123936
body: "I've been playing with the designs of glyphs for a duodecimal number system,
  also known as dozenal, base-12, base twelve, and uncial. \r\n\r\nI'm not a font
  designer, but here are my sketches of the current frontrunners among the tiny baseTwelve
  community in the Dozenal Societies of Great Britain and America: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dozenal
  ten eleven_6190.png]\r\nThese digits represent ten and eleven, respectively. \r\n\r\nAnd
  here's my sketches of my own design and personal choice: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/10
  and 11_4405.png]\r\n\r\nMy sketches are by no means the only suggestions out there.
  But I happen to be the one posting this post, so I'll naturally put in my favorites.
  \r\n\r\nWhat I want from you is, well I guess this is sort of an advertisement to
  make you aware of the need for duodecimal glyphs. Think about it the next time you're
  designing a set of numerals. \r\n\r\nI'd also like to test the waters and see if
  anyone here has preferences for one symbol over another, and why, or why not. \r\n\r\nAs
  for actual use, for now I guess these would go in the personal use area of Unicode,
  if I knew how to do that. In the ideal future, I'd like to see a small block of
  Unicode set aside for base-12 numerals, as well as special hexadecimal characters.
  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hex numerals_5287.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I'm more of a sexagesimal type myself ;-)\r\nIt looks to me that duodecimal
    notation lacks historical sources when it comes to possible glyph shapes, so I
    think there will need some other element other than \"they look pretty to me\"
    for an effective design. Constrain is the father of design (creativity's the mother)."
  created: '2011-12-15 11:00:15'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: "So... you're saying it should be A and B?\r\n\r\nAside: sexagesimal, huh?
    Do you use the Babylonian numerals then, some other source, or have you invented
    your own? "
  created: '2011-12-15 11:12:18'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: "\"Constraint is the father of design.\" \r\n\r\nDoes this apply to arbitrary
    constraints, too? I guess that would be the paternal grandmother of design, making
    arbitrary constraints for her son to follow. Some of the constraints that I've
    seen regarding duodecimal: \r\n\r\n* It has to be able to translate to a seven-segment
    display.\r\n\r\n* It has to be something a 19th-century printer could dig out
    of a drawer by rotating or somehow being creative with existing characters.\r\n\r\n*
    It has to look like other numbers.\r\n\r\n* It has to be something used by Dozenalists
    since the 1940s. \r\n\r\n* It should be related to the letters that the words
    ten and eleven begin with. (T and E, or other letters in other languages)\r\n\r\n*
    It has to be something that already appears somewhere on the keyboard, or ideally,
    on the telephone pad (* and # were used for a while for this reason)\r\n\r\n*
    The single numeral for 10 should look like a 10 to evoke its history and subsequent
    demotion from a 2-digit number to a 1-digit number (actually my favourite constraint)."
  created: '2011-12-15 11:35:28'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I happened to exchange thoughts on that with a certain Thomas Lambert about
    two years ago. And some more time ago I was in contact with Tilman Piesk about
    hexagesimal figures.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not a mathematician, I\u2019m a signographer
    and fontist. It is good that mathematicians and typographers think about this
    together.\r\nThis matter is surely complex. Perhaps it would be most sensible
    to deal with dodekadic and hexagesimal figures at once. The issue seems to be
    the same.\r\n\r\nI try to answer briefly on this worthwile account of aspects:\r\n\r\n<cite>
    It has to be able to translate to a seven-segment display.</cite>\r\n\u2013 this
    is a reasonable request, but aonther request would have to come first:\r\nIt has
    to be easily written and easily recognized (by humans).\r\n\r\n<cite> It has to
    be something a 19th-century printer could dig out of a drawer by rotating or somehow
    being creative with existing characters.</cite>\r\nNo. There is no reason why
    we should stick to the technical limitations of 19th century letterpress printing.
    B.t.w., they were often more flexible like we are nowadays when creation of new
    characters was at stake.\r\n\r\n<cite> It has to look like other numbers.</cite>\r\nNo.
    It has *to fit to the set of the existing figures*\r\n(note: we are typographically
    talking about figures here, i.e. the graphical representations of the first numbers,
    not of numbers as such).\r\n\r\n<cite> It has to be something used by Dozenalists
    since the 1940s.</cite>\r\nPossibly, but not neccessarily. It would be of merit,
    though.\r\n\r\n<cite> It should be related to the letters that the words ten and
    eleven begin with. (T and E, or other letters in other languages)</cite>\r\nNo.
    This is a linguacentric bias which there is absolutely no need for. Choose one
    language and you end up discriminating all others.\r\n\r\n<cite> It has to be
    something that already appears somewhere on the keyboard, or ideally, on the telephone
    pad (* and # were used for a while for this reason)</cite>\r\nNo, No, and once
    more NO.\r\nWhat is needed on the long run is new glyphs and new characters (please
    inform yourself about this two crucial concepts). Everything else will not overcome
    the state of a \u2013 more or less \u2013 poor workaround. You\u2019ll not get
    sustainable encoding practice for those characters as long as you use \xA3 or
    # or something else which already exists for other expressions.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    The single numeral for 10 should look like a 10 to evoke its history and subsequent
    demotion from a 2-digit number to a 1-digit number (actually my favourite constraint).
    </cite>\r\nI do not see any need for that constraint. B.t.w., X means also \u201Cten\u201D.\r\n\r\n*
    It should be simple graphs that can get easily written by hand, easily recognized
    by the eye and easily typographed.\r\n(Your very first line example looks promising,
    I\u2019d say.)\r\n\r\n* The graphs must not get eventually mixed up in recognition
    with other figures."
  created: '2011-12-15 13:57:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool project.\r\nWhy not go all the way to hexadecimal?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-15 15:21:33'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: 'I did include suggestions for hexadecimal symbols in the original post here,
    but I buried them in a bunch of other junk, so you might have missed them. My
    Big Idea with regard to hexadecimal symbols is to make them much like ABCDEF,
    but thinner and more rounded, analogous to the difference between O and 0. '
  created: '2011-12-15 17:50:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good basic idea, but I think they should be only <em>reminiscent</em> of
    ABCDEF\r\nwhile remaining identifiably distinct - otherwise there's really no
    point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-15 19:10:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Well, if you're planning to do glyphs for the sedecimal range 10-15 (A-F),
    why not base them on scripty minuscules? And if duodecimalists want their very
    own, I would suggest X for ten ('H' on 7-segment) and Saturn for eleven ('h' on
    7-segment).
  created: '2011-12-15 20:32:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Some random notes.\r\nMy relationship with the sexagesimal number system
    is mostly of fascination,* not of real use, outside of time tracking and such.
    Hey, we\u2019re divisible by 5 too! ;-)\r\nAbout constrains, other than what others
    already said better than I could do, IPA already claimed any shape even vaguely
    resembling a Latin letter, but it could be a minor issue, lest you need to write
    a book about the Mahl language of Minicoy Island. \r\nI\u2019m with T\xE9 about
    X for ten. Unfortunately it (and its variations) is already one of the most heavily
    laden with meanings symbols of the world.\r\nIf I were to lay down some research
    about duodecimal symbols, I would start looking for already used and working systems.
    \r\nT\xE9\u2019s suggestion about Saturn led me to think about zodiacal symbols
    and their relationship with the twelve months. And what about the Chinese zodiacal
    symbols?** Their twelve years cycle is less meaningful, but they\u2019re more
    related with numbers, with the symbol for \u201Crat\u201D sometimes replaced with
    the symbol for \u201Cfirst\u201D.\r\n\r\n* http://www.newearthtime.net/\r\n**
    There are also the Twelve Symbols of Imperial power, if one wants."
  created: '2011-12-15 22:27:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Is this a Spencer Brown kind of thing or are you trying to devise a set of
    symbols that would "read" as particular numbers?
  created: '2011-12-15 23:05:13'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: "Andreas:\r\n<cite>What is needed on the long run is new glyphs and new characters
    (please inform yourself about this two crucial concepts). Everything else will
    not overcome the state of a \u2013 more or less \u2013 poor workaround. You\u2019ll
    not get sustainable encoding practice for those characters as long as you use
    \xA3 or # or something else which already exists for other expressions.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    glad to see you post this. I feel the same way. That's why I posted here. \r\n\r\n<cite>*
    It should be simple graphs that can get easily written by hand, easily recognized
    by the eye and easily typographed.\r\n(Your very first line example looks promising,
    I\u2019d say.)</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you look around the internet a bit, at duodecimal
    sites, you'll find better examples of X / E upon which my sketch is based. \r\n\r\n\r\nhrant:\r\n<cite>Good
    basic idea, but I think they should be only reminiscent of ABCDEF\r\nwhile remaining
    identifiably distinct - otherwise there's really no point.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    I'm by no means any kind of final arbiter, although if I was, I'd work on my rounded
    glyphs a bit more. I would want computer-people to be able to glance at a string
    of new hexadecimal numbers and say to themselves \"huh, those symbols are obviously
    hexadecimals, and not alphabet letters.\" No more confusion between hexadecimal
    strings and various algebraic expressions you might find in computer programming,
    plus the fact that now you could use hexadecimal in algebra with actual As and
    Bs. \r\n\r\nI can imagine keyboards being made with an extended set of numbers,
    although having read various cases for the dozenal system, I think it's more practical
    to add only two duodecimal numbers to the keyboard, rather than six for hexadecimal.
    \r\n\r\n\r\nriccard0:\r\n<cite>If I were to lay down some research about duodecimal
    symbols, I would start looking for already used and working systems.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    what the first four symbols that I posted are. They are in use by the Dozenal
    Societies of Great Britain and America. The sketches are my interpretations, but
    I didn't come up with those shapes. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nT\xE9:\r\n<cite>Well, if you're
    planning to do glyphs for the sedecimal range 10-15 (A-F), why not base them on
    scripty minuscules?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy not? Because I'd want to create a sense
    of continuity between the capital letters that everybody uses now, and any new
    system. I've looked at minuscules in the desired context, and to me they look
    like algebraic and calculus expressions. "
  created: '2011-12-16 01:55:56'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Everybody uses A-F? Reckon that 'everybody' does not include programmers.
  created: '2011-12-16 09:34:26'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>I've looked at minuscules in the desired context, and to me they look
    like algebraic and calculus expressions.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut, since we're talking
    about \"based on\", if you create glyphs that are lining with numerals, they should
    look less algebraic."
  created: '2011-12-16 10:40:42'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>[X\u2026] Unfortunately it (and its variations) is already one of the
    most heavily laden with meanings symbols of the world.</cite>\r\n\r\nLets be careful.
    Let\u2019s try to describe **exactly** what is meant. It is essential not to mix
    up things here.\r\nAs a matter of fact, it is rather natural that the basic cross-shape
    is materialized in many different signs and characters, and in *some* symbols,
    too. It may help mentally to distinguish:\r\n\r\n\u2022 graph \u2022 sign \u2022
    symbol. as well as \u2022 glyph and \u2022 character.\r\n\r\nIn extensive fonts
    you are likely to find many different glyphs or characters based on one and the
    same graph:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xxxxx_5509.jpg]\r\n\r\nA new
    figure glyph based on the X-graph could well be done, in the carving adjusted
    to the existing figures and proportions rather slim, like here the later two (Runic
    and Ogham)."
  created: '2011-12-16 11:48:06'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: "<cite>Everybody uses A-F? Reckon that 'everybody' does not include programmers.</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm,
    I was assuming by everybody to mean mostly programmers, but I'm not one myself,
    so I might be wrong there. It also depends what language. Writing HTML means you
    pretty much have to use ABCDEF for hexadecimals. "
  created: '2011-12-16 13:44:59'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Writing HTML means you pretty much have to use ABCDEF for hexadecimals</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    write all my html in lowercase. And css too,* including colour values.\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    my only nitpick is proper capitalisation of font names."
  created: '2011-12-16 14:12:25'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: "<cite>A new figure glyph based on the X-graph could well be done</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think, Andreas, you've demonstrated that it is possible to repurpose the X for
    ten. My question would be: is it desirable? \r\n\r\nI'd like to mention too, that
    a new character for ten might also need to be written by hand. Subtle distinctions
    are well and good when creating computer fonts, but if I wrote most of those with
    my hand, I wouldn't know which was which. Learning algebra for the first time
    was hard enough for me, and having x as both multiplication and a variable made
    it harder. Fortunately, the curriculum thought of this, and took out x as multiplication,
    replacing it with brackets. "
  created: '2011-12-16 21:16:49'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: "<cite>But, since we're talking about \"based on\", if you create glyphs that
    are lining with numerals, they should look less algebraic.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think
    I might be able to imagine this, but I'm not sure. A numerical scripty minuscule
    B would look like 6, if I understand what you're suggesting. Did you see my butterfly
    B sketch? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bb_5776.png]"
  created: '2011-12-16 21:23:11'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "A very quick sketch (not for typophiles faint of heart).\r\nPlease keep in
    mind that a script minuscule b will not resemble a 6: its loop would be on top
    (I didn\u2019t included the design in my sketch in order to avoid possible confusion
    with e. I used something akin your \u201Cbutterfly B\u201D, hopefully less similar
    to an 8):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hex_4607.png]"
  created: '2011-12-16 22:51:16'
- author:
    name: Joshbuckler
    picture: 123936
  body: 'Those satisfy me, at this stage being very preliminary sketches (as mine
    also are), I am convinced they won''t be confused for variables. Next step: conquer
    the world. '
  created: '2011-12-17 05:19:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Ah, there is a thread on this subject.\r\n\r\nThe top two symbols, it turns
    out, were designed by W. A. Dwiggins, of Caledonia fame!\r\n\r\nThe second two
    are due to Isaac Pitman, the shorthand innovator.\r\n\r\nAnd even the two you
    identify as your own invention and personal favorite are similar to one set that
    dates from the 1500s, designed by Juan Lobkowitz.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, I see that
    there are no duodecimal positions in Unicode at present. I would have thought
    that at the very least, the \"10\" and \"11\" used to print sterling pence amounts
    would be there, because some computer character codes had them."
  created: '2013-03-17 13:58:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We're gonna need a few more: sexagesimal, anyone?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-17 14:16:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool stuff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-17 16:01:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In fact, [[http://www.vincico.com/arqam/sitemap.html|someone]] <strong>did</strong>
    design unique digits for sexagesimal.\r\n\r\nSince hexadecimal can be achieved
    without additional memorization - one could even go up to base 36, at least if
    one zig-zagged between upper- and lower- case to use i but also L, rather than
    I or l...\r\n\r\nalthough one would have to create confusion by omitting too many
    letters trying to extend the alphabet with Greek or Cyrillic, you well know the
    <em>obvious</em> solution to the problem."
  created: '2013-03-17 16:02:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This\r\n0123456789\r\nABCDEF\r\nGHiJKLMNoPQRSTUVWXYZ\r\n\u0531\u0532\u0533\u0534\u0535\u0536\u0537\u0538\u0539\u053A\u053B\u053C\u053D\u053E\u053F\u0540\u0541\u0542\u0543\u0544\u0545\u0546\u0547\u0548\u0549\u054A\u054B\u054C\r\n\u057D\u054E\u057F\u0550\u0551\u0552\u0553\u0554...\u0556\r\n\r\ngets
    us up to base-64, before we have to switch to lower-case again.\r\n\r\nWith a
    suitable typestyle, a lowercase \u0555 (here replaced by an ellipsis) wouldn't
    get confused with the Latin o either, so one could go to base-74, without any
    additional memorization... except having to learn the Armenian alphabet, of course.\r\n\r\nCome
    to think of it, though, while 4 and 7 are exceptions, most of the digits are rounded
    in shape, while most upper-case Latin letters are angular - and Greek, Cyrillic,
    and Armenian capital letters are closely enough related that the same applies
    to them. Perhaps another alphabet should be chosen, one with rounded shapes that
    match well with the digits...\r\n\r\nThus, I unveil... New Hexadecimal!\r\n\r\n0123456789\u10D0\u10D1\u10D2\u10D3\u10D4\u10D5\r\n\r\nOops;
    F and 3 will get confused (at least with oldstyle digits) and why is Georgian
    being aliased differently from everything else in my browser (perhaps resorting
    to a different font)?\r\n\r\nHmm. I think I've come up with a way to avoid memorization
    entirely. Use a-z followed by A-Z, and avoid confusion by using a script face
    for the letters used as digits."
  created: '2013-03-19 12:11:32'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "It is not acceptable to merely add two new numeral characters to the ten
    digits of the decimal Indo-Arabic numeral system in order to make a duodecimal
    system. It would also then be necessary to write some kind of a note next to any
    number written with the supplemented numerals to the effect of \"this is a base-twelve
    number\", as otherwise the reader would not know what base the numeral system
    is supposed to be if only the digits of the small counting numbers zero to nine
    happen to appear in the expression of the number. But it is not convenient to
    have to write such a note every single time any number is written by an expanded
    decimal to base-twelve system.\r\n\r\nWhat should be required instead in the design
    of a duodenary system of numeral notation is creation of a complete set of twelve
    new numeral digits, such that none of the new digits could be confused with any
    of the old decimal number characters. The dozenal digits should also preferably
    look different from alphabetic letters. This I have done (See image \"DKdozenalJPEG\"
    of numeral characters adapted for familiar modular display).\r\n\r\nI used to
    complain about the decimal system of notation and advocate a base-twelve system
    instead as a child. The number ten as base for a numeral system seems quite bizarre
    in comparison to twelve. Now I have been routinely using a dozenal numeral system
    privately, and this differs from that which I display here in that only one of
    its numerals neatly written can be converted to one of the others by adding marks,
    but it is not so suitable for the monospaced concept.\r\n\r\nOne person with good
    judgement can propose better in a single day what many other people in decades
    or centuries suggest.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DKdozenalJPEG_5240.jpg]"
  created: '2013-03-19 19:35:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I hereby nominate you as an honorary Armenian.  ;-)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the
    reader would not know what base the numeral system is supposed to be if only the
    digits of the small counting numbers zero to nine happen to appear</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell,
    we do re-use the ten decimal digits in non-decimal systems and it still works
    out OK... Although there are advantages to not overloading a symbol, there's also
    an advantage to having to learn less redundant stuff; after all the symbol/numeral
    \"1\" for example has the same value in binary, decimal, hexadecimal, etc.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>One
    person with good judgement can propose better in a single day what many other
    people in decades or centuries suggest.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIndeed. Or as Galileo
    said:\r\n\"In questions of science, the authority of a thousand is not worth the
    humble reasoning of a single individual.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 05:30:34'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Kepler wrote a letter to Galileo asking for his opinion on his Mysterium
    Cosmographicum and stated\r\n\"I much prefer the sharpest criticism of a single
    intelligent man to the thoughtless approval of the masses.\"\r\n\r\nIn 1931 under
    Nazi influence in Germany, a publication called \"A Hundred Authors Against Einstein\"
    appeared. Einstein remarked: \"If I were wrong, one would have been enough.\""
  created: '2013-03-23 21:35:24'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "hrant: \"we do re-use the ten decimal digits in non-decimal systems and it
    still works out OK... [...] the symbol/numeral \"1\" for example has the same
    value in binary, decimal, hexadecimal, etc.\"\r\n\r\nPeople only re-used the same
    symbols for different numeral bases because they had no other immediate option
    that could be applied systematically. A make-shift work-around does not rule out
    supersedence by a surpassing tailor-made fix. Identical decimal numerals used
    for different bases only barely perform when the different bases are not co-existing
    in the same application or if there is a notation to explain explicitly what the
    base of a given number is supposed to be.\r\n\r\nA particular digit could hardly
    be said to have the same meaning in different base notations. Even within a same
    base numeral system, a character signifies different numbers depending on the
    context of its position in the place value. For example, in decimal notation a
    digit 1 followed by just one other digit to its right hand side means ten; but
    with two or three other digits to its right it would mean a hundred or thousand.
    But in base sixteen its values would be sixteen, two hundred and fifty-six, or
    four thousand and ninety-six. If there is no explicit instruction explaining what
    the place value is, since counting the number of digits to the right hand side
    is inadequate because it only provides the power or exponent of the base but not
    the base itself, then the digits themselves by their dedicated design ought to
    assume the role of informing the reader of the base. Otherwise, the reader would
    have to try to guess what the base is by watching how many different characters
    happen to appear in the numbers; although this method is not reliable, because
    the character signifying the largest number of units for the base might not appear
    in a given sample. \r\n\r\nInsistence on using only pre-existing alphanumeric
    characters for other bases than decimal is not optimal, has no inherent justification,
    and prevents the practical simultaneous use of different numeral base systems.\r\n\r\nI
    designed some cursive versions of the characters that I proposed here in my post
    of 19 Mar 2013 \u2014 12:35pm (See image \"DKdodenaryJPEG\"). I have not done
    any further work on this picture since Tuesday 26th March 2013.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DKdodenaryJPEG_5512.jpg]"
  created: '2013-04-05 12:12:11'
date: '2011-12-15 10:43:17'
node_type: forum
title: Duodecimal Designs

---
