---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: "Just wondering...\r\n\r\nI'm spacing my caps to work with lowercase, since
  I'm designing a text face where all caps settings will be rare. However, it struck
  me that it could actually be possible to accommodate all caps settings as well,
  by adding some extra units to the left sidebearings of capital letters: this wouldn't
  affect how they look with lowercase (except in situations with interCaps) but could
  make the caps look nicely spaced amongst themselves. Would this be useful, perhaps
  for situations where OpenType cpsp isn't available? Have other type designers tried
  this? Or is it undesirable to have the caps off-centre like this?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: Wouldn't that make every sentence space look too large? Or would you kern
    them all against the space? And against any previous character that's not another
    cap? I'm not a type designer, but I think it'd be better to let the typographer
    decide how much letterspacing to add, if any.
  created: '2011-12-21 17:38:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That idea was both championed and criticized in this old thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15849"
  created: '2011-12-21 17:51:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thank you Craig, very instructive.\r\n\r\nJoshua, my concern was that most
    typography I see these days seems to be done by ill-equipped graphic designers;
    I was hoping to make the font look its best without manual adjustment. \r\n\r\nI'm
    now thinking all caps is such an ugly state of affairs it's probably not worth
    taking the time to altering their inbuilt spacing and kern."
  created: '2011-12-21 18:16:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I'm now thinking all caps is such an ugly state of affairs it's probably
    not worth taking the time to altering their inbuilt spacing and kern.</cite>\r\n\r\nOft
    times, the decision on whether or not to use full caps is the designers for display
    type, but the editors in running text.\r\n\r\nIt's fine for you to not kern them.
    Just make sure your EULA allows the end user to modify the fonts, for their own
    use only. There are very few type designers in the world who actually use type
    professionally. Kent Lew comes immediately to mind. If your one of the few, I
    suppose you might be able to make such decisions; if not, leave the decision to
    those with the expertise."
  created: '2011-12-22 01:19:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Ben: <em>\u2026 most typography I see these days seems to be done by ill-equipped
    graphic designers\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nCharles: <em>\u2026 very few type designers
    in the world who actually use type professionally \u2026 </em>\r\n\r\nOh dear,
    a sorry state of affairs.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-22 08:16:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Nick, I agree, and I'm going to start a thread at some point about what we
    can do about type education. I think there's potential, but need to collect my
    thoughts first.
  created: '2011-12-22 12:16:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Ben, I think Nick was poking fun at me. While we respect each other some
    -- well, at least I have some respect for him -- we don't much care for each other.
    Different world views (leave that alone, Nick. I can make just as much fun with
    that line as you can).\r\n\r\nWhich doesn't make you wrong...\r\n\r\nBut in the
    same way that you can't teach how to draw good letterforms without including a
    fair bit of hands-on work, you can't teach using them without the same."
  created: '2011-12-22 14:12:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Charles, I love you man. \r\n(And one day I may even get around to publishing
    the update of Goodchild that you were kind enough to help me with; please don't
    take my tardiness personally, I still have a lot of legacy-format fonts I haven\u2019t
    published OpenType upgrades to, but other things keep getting in the way.)\r\n\r\nTo
    clarify: I merely observed that there were two opposing and rather pessimistic
    viewpoints expressed in this thread.\r\n\r\nOne pointing out that the inexperience
    of type designers in setting type may impact the quality of their work, the other
    noting the typographic shortcomings of graphic designers.\r\n\r\nThese are opinions
    which have no merit, sweeping generalizations \u2014 as the terms \u201Ctype designer\u201D
    and \u201Cgraphic designer\u201D are so broadly used, firstly to describe anyone
    who has ever published a font of any kind, and secondly anyone who uses an Adobe
    application.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know the statistics, but I suspect a lot more
    than \u201Cvery few\u201D type designers (however you cast that net) have practical
    professional experience setting type; not of course the complex academic work
    you do Charles, but it is typography none the less. \r\n\r\nI would also point
    out that some of the most accomplished types for that kind of high-end book work
    were designed by people with very little \u201Cclient side\u201D experience.\r\n\r\nIt
    may well be the case that the less accomplished type designers have <em>more</em>
    practical experience as typographers, because the majority of their income comes
    from general graphic design work, whereas those who have been successful as type
    designers from the get-go have consequently done very little professional typography.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-22 21:37:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I'm now thinking all caps is such an ugly state of affairs it's probably
    not worth taking the time to altering their inbuilt spacing and kern.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    would say it is the other way round. It is most fonts' built-in spacing which
    turns all caps setting into an ugly state of affairs. :)"
  created: '2011-12-22 22:01:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> These are opinions which have no merit\r\n\r\nSorry, they most certainly
    do.\r\nIt results in a paradox of sorts, but hey.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 00:51:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I've been told that you should space the caps with the H and O, and then
    kern caps to the lower case. Otherwise, it will never be right in all caps settings.
    To start with I think you want the H and O to not be wildly far away from the
    lower case. That means your caps will be a bit too tight in all caps setting.
    But then either set as is or tracked out by the software or cpsp they won't look
    heinous. Even after you kern the caps to caps, in titles they will need more kerning
    by the user; there seems to be no way to avoid the need for that. \r\n\r\nAlso
    with this approach the kerning to the lower case of the other letters is generally
    not too extreme. That is important because you never know when your font is not
    going to be kerned at all. And your all-caps will generally look non-heinous even
    kerning off, as well, with this approach.  \r\n\r\nSo text face, or not, that
    is the way to go. Or so I've been told. Makes sense to me. "
  created: '2011-12-23 03:53:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Bill, I don''t understand what you''ve said here: sentence 1 & 2 seem to
    me to contradict 3 & 4. If you''re spacing the caps with H and O, why would they
    be too tight in all caps setting?'
  created: '2011-12-23 04:01:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sorry it's late here, and I'm tired so I probably wasn't so clear.\r\n\r\nThe
    first step, to my thinking is to make sure that the right side bearings of the
    H and O are close enough to lower case letters, eg n and o, not to look weird
    unkerned. And you want the H to be spaced equidistant between two Os, and Os between
    two Hs. Your HHOHHOOHOHO also needs to look decently balanced without kerning.
    That's a balancing act that's likely going to put them closer than ideal in all
    caps settings, at least by traditional ideas about all caps spacing. So the sensitive
    user will track out the all caps, or use cpsp, which you instruct to space them
    out some.\r\n\r\nWhat I actually have done while spacing the caps to caps (after
    setting the H and O) is always to check at the effect of the caps to caps spacing
    on caps to lower case letters, just to make sure things aren't getting too weird.
    Of course, the letters need to be well designed so they space properly. It doesn't
    just happen. If you have screwed up then you can catch and correct it. Of course
    then you still have to do cap to cap and cap to lower case kerning. But even if
    kerning is turned off (as in Word), or in a publication, your font will then still
    look decent.   "
  created: '2011-12-23 04:37:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Got it, thanks for clarifying.
  created: '2011-12-23 04:40:59'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Bill, in more general terms: Caps need one kind of spacing when in
    all-caps context and another kind of spacing when in lowercase context. By \"spacing\"
    I mean the determination of distances between letters, irrespective of how this
    is implemented. (In the currently dominant paradigm, spacing needs to be implemented
    by way of sidebearings and kerning. Plus, more or less as an optional add-on,
    some contextual positioning.)\r\nThe steps which you describe reflect one possible
    implementation. There are other ways to implement it, like via contextual positioning.
    Even when avoiding contextuality and restricting oneself to sidebearings plus
    kerning, there are still a variety of approaches left. The problem which I see
    with all non-contextual approaches is that when starting with a (for a given typeface)
    less-than-perfect beat then it is impossible to get the rhythm right. You indicate
    this when you write: <cite>To start with I think you want the H and O to not be
    wildly far away from the lower case. That means your caps will be a bit too tight
    in all caps setting.</cite> This compromise is, one way or another, a built-in
    feature of all sidebearings plus kerning approaches: Once H and O are already
    too close (they need to be or caps to lowercase spacing will be too wide), there
    is not enough default space left between caps that helps special ones like A L
    V W Y etc to disappear, and they will always stand out as being surrounded by
    more space than other caps. After all, the trick of all-caps spacing \u2013 the
    essence of Tschichold's advices or Kindersley's mechanism \u2013 is simple: Make
    sure that inter-caps spacing is wide enough so that the spaces caused by special
    caps does not stand out. Don't let letters that can be spaced tightly determine
    the beat. Let special ones determine the beat.\r\n(A completely different issue
    is all-caps spacing aesthetics. In book typography, good all-caps spacing is rather
    wide, causing word images of evenly distributed black and white. In magazine &
    advertising typography, it is rather tight, causing word images of irregularly
    distributed of black and white. What is considered as bad all-caps spacing in
    book typography is what makes magazine typography interesting.)\r\nThis is a bit
    theoretical. It is not to suggest that your implementation approach is wrong but
    rather that it is but one among many possible ones. And, given current technology
    and its limitations, each approach has its own drawback, either in terms of design
    or in terms of being supported.\r\n\r\n[Sorry for some post posting edits.]"
  created: '2011-12-23 10:31:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Nice job, Karsten!
  created: '2011-12-23 11:14:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the one hand users who don't make an effort to enable kerning\r\ndon't
    care enough about the results to be affected; on the other\r\nhand some of <em>their</em>
    users (i.e. readers) will certainly care, or at the\r\nvery least be affected
    even if they don't notice. So a font sort of\r\nneeds to give good results in
    spite of the setter.\r\n\r\nBTW Karsten: All good, just no \"rhythm\" involved.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 16:45:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "hrant,\r\n\r\nAh, the old comp-as-tradesman notion, where a typesetter's
    job is to not make mistakes, while his betters solve problems. \"Betters\" being
    the various designers, though actually, with hot metal, the type designer was
    expected to make compromises. \r\n\r\nThat's why AIGA went with the actors union;
    they didn't want to be associated with a bunch of tradesmen. Sometime I'll give
    you my argument why that's no longer appropriate (I figure you already know where
    I stand...) \r\n\r\nActually, I better not. Rich Hendel twisted my arm into writing
    a chapter for his forthcoming book that touches on this. While I doubt anyone
    would buy it to read my thoughts, I think it's considered inappropriate to leak
    things? Kent Lew has written a chapter as well. The plan is for next year, to
    be published by the University of Iowa Press. Kent's a *type* designer, so y'all
    buy 10 copies each, y'hear?"
  created: '2011-12-23 16:57:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Since this discussion is about trying to think ahead carefully about how
    design might actually reach the end user, I find this amusing:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0022_3582.PNG]"
  created: '2011-12-23 17:07:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Well, here's how that came out:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0023_3435.PNG]\r\nThird
    time's the charm?"
  created: '2011-12-23 17:19:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A good typesetter's job -especially these days of solo efforts- is much\r\nmore
    than that. But a type designer shouldn't assume they're all good.\r\nNo matter
    the position, if an issue is within your power to address, do it.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    the book sounds interesting. And Kent is a friend.\r\nBut the UCLA library is
    still my go-to money-saving device.  :-)\r\n\r\nCraig: Touch\xE9. What to do?
    I can't get myself to\r\nproduce something hard to read for most users.\r\nIs
    there a column width short enough to be safe\r\neven on iGadgets?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 17:20:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Craig, uh, what about the <em>content</em>? I assume\r\nyou realize my posts
    aren't just meant for you...\r\n\r\nAnd I rarely complain how crappy it is to
    read\r\nmost of your (plural) posts... Like Karsten's was a\r\nfrightening monolith
    - it's a good thing I managed\r\nto force myself to read it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 17:42:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/88554\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 17:47:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, nice post. \r\n\r\nAs I understand it, Kindersley believed that
    once you had correctly positioned a glyph between its side bearings, and had the
    total advance width correct in relationship to other glyphs, then tracking should
    make no difference. You might get overlaps (eg KA) with tight kerning, but otherwise
    everything would be optimally balanced, as you go looser or tighter with tracking.
    I really wonder whether he was right, though. It seems like all caps titles always
    benefit from re-fitting. And, as you say, what appropriate tightness or looseness
    is different with the usage. \r\n\r\nCould you explain more what you mean by \"contextual
    positioning?\" Kerning is one kind of contextual positioning. Another is contextual
    alternatives. In Williams Caslon Text to handle the old style long-nosed f's,
    in addition to kerning I used contextual alternatives, sensitive to the following
    letter or space. Also, inspired by Charles's comments on Typophile, I also used
    contextual alternatives to handle triplets involving spaces, like f space T.  \r\n\r\nAre
    you advocating more widespread use of contextual alternatives? What do you have
    in mind? Are you thinking of more sensitivity to triplets?\r\n\r\nI know John
    Hudson would like to see a system of \"envelope\" shapes that would determine
    fitting and erase the spacing/kerning distinction, which is an anachronism in
    digital type. \r\n\r\nI agree that this would be an advance. The approach I followed
    was as you say trying to cope with our existing system. I tried to get the final
    result with kerning and contextual alternatives have \"right rhythm,\" as you
    put it. But I was also concerned with the practical problem that you don't want
    your font totally wrecked with both kerning and contextual alternatives not used.\r\n\r\nThis
    isn't just a theoretical possibility, as Boston Magazine, the years when it was
    using Williams Caslon Text, didn't have any kerning. I winced occasionally when
    I looked at samples, but it looks like no one else gave a shit :) "
  created: '2011-12-23 17:49:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Bill \u2013 <cite>Kindersley believed that once you had correctly positioned
    a glyph between its side bearings, and had the total advance width correct in
    relationship to other glyphs, then tracking should make no difference.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    middle part, <cite>and had the total advance width correct in relationship to
    other glyphs</cite>, is the crucial one and, my impression, is an aspect that
    Kindersley dealt with rather silently in his approach, possibly didn't even care
    about. His article \"Optical Letter Spacing\" (Penrose Annual, volume 62, 1969,
    pp 167\u2013176) shows, on p 175, a comparison of tight (left) and wide (right)
    spacing as created with his approach, by example of the caps alphabets of Folio,
    Times, Perpetua and Optima. The tight spacing column is telling: The L is too
    close to, and sometimes even touches, the M which follows. He doesn't mention
    this explicitly yet this demo <em>shows</em> that overall spacing width is an
    implicit factor. If too tight, the method does not yield proper results.\r\n\r\n<cite>Could
    you explain more what you mean by \"contextual positioning?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    is how I translate my initial observation, that <cite>caps need one kind of spacing
    when in all-caps context and another kind of spacing when in lowercase context</cite>,
    into the current spacing-plus-kerning paradigm and OpenType add-on: There is one
    set of sidebearings for lowercase context; this is the default sidebearings. Then
    there is another set of sidebearings for all-caps context; these 'alternative'
    sidebearings are implemented by adjusting glyphs' positioning and/or advance widths
    contextually, via the GPOS table. (This is what I did in some of my fonts. Another
    factor, though, is each typeface's design. Not every typeface needs caps to be
    spaced differently for different contexts \u2013 a number of recent typefaces
    have rather narrow caps which produce the same 'beat' as lowercase letters anyway.)\r\nIndeed
    'normal' kerning can be interpreted as a special case of contextually adjusting
    positioning and/or advance width.\r\nKerning triplets sound interesting for dealing
    with a few exception cases but is not what I was thinking of.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    approach I followed was as you say trying to cope with our existing system. ...
    But I was also concerned with the practical problem that you don't want your font
    totally wrecked with both kerning and contextual alternatives not used.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    this makes pretty much sense. When I wrote that my comment <cite>is not to suggest
    that your implementation approach is wrong</cite>, this was not mere rhetorics.
    Over time I got weary of trying to push the boundaries of the current paradigm
    within the current paradigm. It only gets one so far. I realized that one better
    acknowledges a given technology's limitations \u2013 or come up with new technology.
    And, like you say, <cite>it looks like no one else gave a shit</cite>. :(\r\n\r\nhhp
    \u2013 <cite>BTW Karsten: All good, just no \"rhythm\" involved.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    guess you aren't surprised that I am not surprised reading this. ;-)"
  created: '2011-12-23 19:42:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You might however be surprised to hear that I wouldn't\r\nhave said anything
    if William hadn't repeated the term.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-23 19:57:57'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I am!\r\n\r\nA little update. I wrote that the overall spacing width ('beat')
    <cite>is an aspect that Kindersley dealt with rather silently in his approach</cite>.
    In the Cardozo Kindersley workshop's \"Optical letter spacing for new printing
    systems\" publication (2001 edition) he does mention it when discussing the OILIO
    test string: <cite>For practical reasons kerning is undesirable in the initial
    stages of dtermining relative optical spaces for characters. Therefore close setting
    which would produce this is to be avoided. ... The ideal working set therefore
    would be when the 'L' is provided with the minimum space without any part of it
    projecting beyond its space.</cite> (p 31) Though the description of his approach
    begins with the spacing of O and I, actually it is the L which determines the
    'beat' for spacing O and I. (The dramaturgical order doesn't necessarily mirror
    the order of what the story is about, true for fiction as well as non-fiction.)\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-24 10:24:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, I was aware of the idea of initially determining looseness or tightness
    with the L. But somewhere he also says that overlapping is preferable to changing
    side bearings. so the idea of further kerning seems to be something added after
    the death of Kindersley. But I may have the story wrong, and I don't have time
    to look back over it. In the end, I think Kindersley's idea of an optical center
    is good, but his ways of determining it\u2014other than by eye\u2014never really
    worked. And he didn't acknowledge that at tighter settings kerning involves compromise
    between different ideals, such as even color vs not having letters touching. "
  created: '2011-12-24 15:13:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Yes.
  created: '2011-12-25 10:47:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I didn\u2019t consciously develop a method for spacing Parity (unicase).\r\nIt
    struck me that it has more of the qualities of minuscule setting when set tight,
    and the qualities of all-cap setting when letterspaced. That  may have something
    to do with the fact that it\u2019s a lining style.\r\n\r\nAnother thing with Parity;
    as it is configured as \u201CUnicase with Small Unicase\u201D, I was forced to
    be more specific and describe letters as majuscule, minuscule, or common, rather
    than in terms of \u201CUpper and Lower Case\u201D.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I think I have
    acquired some extra knowledge about spacing through working on this style, although
    I\u2019m not sure how it will play out in my next bicameral design. \r\n\r\nI
    try not to systematize things like letter spacing; I don't think spacing is something
    to be added on after glyph shaping\u2014there\u2019s a feedback loop in which
    glyph shape and spacing evolve in sync during the design process. \r\n\r\nSome
    ideas I\u2019ve tried: wider sidebearings for \u201CI\u201D; narrower serifs for
    letters such as \u201CE\u201D; different serif widths at top and bottom.\r\n\r\nSlab
    serif types are the worst to space without kerning."
  created: '2011-12-25 20:00:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: In order to avoid very odd first glyph in line spacing for caps, I set side
    bearings to fit better with lowercase [tighter] and kern positive between some
    caps classes.  This avoids the need to use capital spacing feature.
  created: '2011-12-26 02:01:25'
date: '2011-12-21 17:06:22'
node_type: forum
title: Caps and lowercase spacing

---
