---
author:
  name: finedesign
  picture: 113705
body: "I am working with Illustrator and InDesign ME. Coming from a latin perspective,
  I want to adjust the \"kerning\" between characters by extending the line or juncture
  between letterforms. I see this all the time with Arabic text, but I'm not sure
  if it is a special font that allows it, or if perhaps there is a glyph in each Arabic
  font that allows me to extend the line. \r\n\r\nSo for example, the bismillah normally
  begins:\r\n\u0628\u0633\u0645\r\nbut I would like to extend the line between the
  \"ba\" and \"sin\". \r\n\u0628--\u0633\u0645\r\n\r\nI don't see that in the character
  set. I am using KFGQPC Uthman Taha Naskh. I realize I won't be able to compete with
  a calligrapher, but I'm trying to replicate what I'm seeing elsewhere. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "You should the tatweel character U+0640 \"\u0640\" (Shift+\u062A on my keyboard
    layout). But it should be used with care as it is not appropriate between any
    glyph pair (most users abuse it)."
  created: '2012-01-01 09:06:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Khaled, I can usually spot where the tatweel (AKA kasheeda)\r\nis misused,
    but are there formal rules written down anywhere?\r\n\r\nBTW Paul, a more significant
    use of the tatweel is for line justification.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-01 16:23:03'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "There rules are rather aesthetic, and differ slightly from calligraphy master
    to another, and some styles are more generous in applying tatweel while it is
    completely prohibited in Ruq\u2018a for example.\r\n\r\nThis article on [[http://www.tug.org/TUGboat/tb27-2/tb87benatia.pdf|Arabic
    text justification]] gives a great insight on kashida rules, with detailed rules
    for Naskh style. There are also the rules used by (some?) [[http://www.microsoft.com/middleeast/msdn/JustifyingText-CSS.aspx|Microsoft
    applications]], though they are simplistic and thus can result in wrong kashidas
    and the last rule is really bogus."
  created: '2012-01-01 17:10:33'
- author:
    name: finedesign
    picture: 113705
  body: "Thank you Khaled! This is exactly what I needed. And thank you hhp for the
    relevant question. I certainly am concerned about usage of it. The pdf Khaled
    sent helps so much.\r\n\r\nIs this behavior generally out of taste and should
    be avoided unless necessary? Or is it accepted when used minimally? Should I not
    use it at all if not for justification? And is a tatweel the same as a kashida?
    I've never been able to do anything with \"Kashida\" in any of the Adobe apps,
    and I have assumed I just don't have the right font.\r\n\r\nThe issue is I need
    to type a bismillah, but it needs to match the font of the body text, and there
    is is no full bismillah glyph in the font. (Sometimes I see a nice one in the
    character map of the font I'm using.) But I don't want to add a tatweel if it
    is considered tacky. It just looks so strange to see a bismillah so short without
    the calligrapher's tatweel! (And I got the first message wrong. It's between \"sin\"
    and \"mim\".)\r\n\r\nAlso, the swashes that you see in latin fonts, are those
    available in Arabic fonts too? I've never seen them. What I mean is a long extension
    that curls above or below the line...like in \"fi\"\r\n\u0641\u064A\r\nif the
    \"yah\" extended below the baseline for a longer distance without interrupting
    the other characters. I realize I'm probably getting into \"call the calligrapher\"
    domain here. Tasmeem in InDesign is nice, but I just can't afford the nicer fonts
    yet, and what I have doesn't seem to give enough variation in the line.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 00:33:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Proper use of the kasheeda is the height of good taste,\r\nand is certainly
    not limited to line justification. For one\r\nthing a kasheeda can get ridiculously
    long, but when it's\r\nright it's awesome.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 00:50:13'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "Tatweel is an Arabic name of kashida (which I believe is a word of Persian
    origin, though the word commonly used by Arabic calligraphers as well).\r\n\r\nKashida
    can be used for many purposes like emphasising, giving room for diacritics in
    \"crowded\" situations etc. and when used properly improves the overall appearance
    of text. Kashida is usually a curvilinear stroke and in traditional fonts too
    long kasida will look awful when rectangular in shape, yet very few fonts provide
    curvilinear ones.\r\n\r\nFor bismillah it is customary to use kashida before the
    meem, but unless that meem is extended horizontally (unlike most fonts) it will
    look bad, and I'd not do that my self. Some fonts might include the bismillah
    ligature \uFDFD (U+FDFD) and if present can be a better choice.\r\n\r\nAs for
    swashes, some fonts have them with 'swsh' feature, but they are too fancy and
    shouldn't be used for regular text."
  created: '2012-01-02 14:15:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> For bismillah it is customary to use kashida before the meem\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that part of the \"seen\" though? I know that in terms of\r\nhow glyphs are typically
    built it would involve a kasheeda,\r\nbut maybe the more interesting use of the
    kasheeda is where\r\nit's not following a long letter (basically a \"seen\" or
    \"shaa'\"),\r\nso in a way it's \"optional\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 15:15:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Isn't that part of the \"seen\" though?</em>\r\n\r\nIt is important to
    understand the kashida as an elongation of a letter, and not as something inserted
    between letters, although most font technologies have tried to implement kashida
    in terms of an insertion (and most Arabic justification algorithms sadly presume
    a flat kashida that can be stretched or multiplied without distortion). As an
    elongation of the letter, the kashida should affect the positioning of disambiguating
    dots and other marks.\r\n\r\nThis is an area of Arabic typography that is still
    very problematic. We can get manually inserted U+0640 kashida to work correctly
    using OpenType Layout:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/otlkashida_3429.png]\r\n\r\nBut
    automatic kashida insertion as applied in all justification I've looked at happens
    after OTL processing, and hence will break display of any non-flat Arabic typeface."
  created: '2012-01-02 19:24:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the kashida should affect the positioning\r\n> of disambiguating dots and
    other marks.\r\n\r\nI didn't know that!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 19:50:12'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>Isn't that part of the \"seen\" though?</cite>\r\n\r\nStrictly speaking,
    here it is the \"seen\" being elongated, but kashida often affects the shape of
    both sides of it and hardly belongs exclusively to either."
  created: '2012-01-02 20:01:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Khaled, I interpret this slightly differently: kashida is an elongation of
    the first letter but may have an influence on the shape of the second letter because
    of the way in which the elongation affects the join (or a stylistic influence
    as in the contextual use of a variant alif in the example I showed above).'
  created: '2012-01-02 22:39:13'
- author:
    name: finedesign
    picture: 113705
  body: "Thank you for the comments. It's all very helpful.\r\n\r\nJust to provide
    a little visual to the theory, I'm attaching two images.\r\nThe first image shows
    the font desired and the result of adding one and three tatweelat.\r\nThe second
    image is the Emiri font in InDesign Tasmeem. I'm actually surprised it is so flat.
    \r\n\r\nAfter looking at this, what is the best option? I do think the tatweel
    are too flat and not helpful in this context.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bismillah-tatweel-KFGQPC_3615.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bismillah-tatweel-emiri_5208.png]"
  created: '2012-01-02 23:26:35'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>I interpret this slightly differently</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen elongating,
    say, \u062C\u0631, the kashida is hardly part of the jeem as it does not affect
    it more than it affect the raa (even the placement of the dot does not change),
    but your view can off course be true in many other cases."
  created: '2012-01-02 23:44:31'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: I think Uthman Taha's kashida-less one is better, Emiri's Allah "ligature"
    is very poor, I'd never use it if only for that, but as far as kashida is concerned
    the middle is the best of the three.
  created: '2012-01-02 23:48:36'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "I don't see a real need to use kashida here. It is not a basmala, where the
    word bism is like a base for the rest of the building. \r\nAnyway, that 1 tatweel
    example seems to be the best, though it is a tad too \"mechanic\", it's a straight
    curve; so tou could make it narrower a bit, probably."
  created: '2012-01-03 08:09:06'
- author:
    name: finedesign
    picture: 113705
  body: Thanks so much for the feedback, folks.
  created: '2012-01-06 03:32:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In those docile styles I think a moderate tatweel might be best.\r\nBut you
    do need <em>something</em> after a \"seen\"/\"shaa'\" I think.\r\n\r\n> tatweelat\r\n\r\nSince
    \"tatweel\" is masculine I suspect that would be \"tataaweel\".  :-)\r\nArabic
    pluralization is awesome.\r\n\r\nBTW, you're missing the \"hah\" in the \"alraHeem\"
    in the KFGQPC samples.\r\nAnd isn't the vertical \"a\" accent important in \"alraHmaan\"?
    Not sure.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-06 16:46:07'
- author:
    name: Badr Oraby
    picture: 112008
  body: "When elongating, say, \u062C\u0631, the kashida is hardly part of the jeem
    as it does not affect it more than it affect the raa\r\n\r\nKhalid, I disagree
    with you because kashida affects on Geem more than raa, because the exit place
    of kashida changed its position,and the design of Geem changed on both, size and
    Inclination.\r\n\r\nBadr\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20_4639.JPG]"
  created: '2012-01-06 16:58:30'
- author:
    name: finedesign
    picture: 113705
  body: hhp, I totally didn't catch the "hah" in "alraHeem." Thanks for the correction.
  created: '2012-01-06 19:29:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool.\r\n(And I didn't know there's supposed to\r\nbe a shadda on the \"rayn\"
    in \"alraHeem\".)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-15 00:57:30'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Why + how to do extend Where?!\r\nToo puzzling that the 3 fundamental questions
    remain unanswered?!\r\nThanks God, I was born with KASHIDA?!\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-15 05:59:37'
- author:
    name: Badr Oraby
    picture: 112008
  body: "Good work, Zuhair\r\nI ask you to enter this link:\r\nhttp://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.309765395731518.70922.192106934164032&type=1\r\nyou
    will find multiple forms of writing Basmalah.\r\nAt the same time you will find
    many different rules on the page to write Naskh and you'll see the Characters
    before and after that affected by adding Kashidas.\r\n\r\nGO ON ...\r\n\r\nBadr"
  created: '2012-01-15 13:21:39'
- author:
    name: finedesign
    picture: 113705
  body: "Zuhair, thank you for sharing examples from your font. This is exactly the
    kind of functionality I wanted. Is the font completed? And does it have multiple
    weights?\r\n\r\nIf I understand Aziz and Badr correctly, the tatweelat are incorrect
    because they do not take into consideration the adjacent letters, yes? This seems
    to be an inevitable challenge for any Arabic font, unless you are using Tasmeem
    in InDesign or have a font with an insane number of ligatures. I would like to
    know if either Aziz or Badr ever use tatweel in other fonts. I know Aziz has been
    working on his own font(s) with multiple ligatures. Does that mean Aziz only uses
    his own fonts, never those of others? Or just never tatweelat?"
  created: '2012-01-18 17:57:32'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Thanks to all for appreciating my new Naskh font. \r\n\r\n\r\nMy Naskh font
    consists of more than 4000 Arabic glyphs. It supports only Arabic language not
    Persian, Urdu or any other similar language. The tatweel can be inserted at any
    position in any word up to three levels. So the user will have full control over
    the tatweel to insert how much tatweel he wants and where he wants. Tatweel works
    for every character and it will be the user's choice to insert tatweels where
    he wants, correctly or incorrectly. \r\n\r\nAs far as the Tasmeem for Indesign
    is concerned that is a software while it is a font but I have worked hard to make
    it more powerful and more flexible than Tasmeem and to provide the Arabic users
    and publishers an easy way to use most of the possibilities of Arabic Calligraphy
    just by using a font like tatweel up to three levels, alternate shapes of reh
    and zeh in every word, alternate shapes of Alef, alternate shapes of jeem, alternate
    shapes for meem, alternate shapes for kaf, swashes for all possible words, alternate
    shapes for diacritical marks, alternate space between words etc. etc.\r\n\r\nFor
    example the word \"AR-Rehmaan\" in the Basmala. In my font it has 256 or even
    more possible shapes along with tatweels, swashes, alternate reh and alternate
    alef etc. I have not counted mark placement in these 256 shapes. Similarly most
    of the words has several possible shapes.\r\n\r\nI hope this font will be one
    of its own kind, more like a software. Only some kerning work is remaining and
    I hope that I will complete it very soon Insha-Allah with two weights Regular
    and Bold.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Graphic0_6617.jpg]"
  created: '2012-01-18 21:55:19'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Finedesign, \u2026 Or just never tatweelat?\r\n\r\nSo far, All typesetting
    tools built by M$,Adobe+WinSoft are not SMART enough to handle TATWEEL even for
    their own linear fonts?! They randomly+indiscriminately distribute TATWEEL beautifying
    some words and spoiling others. So, TATWEEL is virtually useless.\r\n\r\nSo, think
    of building a SMART Arabic Font by:\r\n1. Freeing it of any INSANE Kashida.\r\n2.
    Killing the right side bearings of ALL Glyphs.\r\n3. Adjusting SPACE between 222
    + 277 points,\r\n4. Spacing the left side bearings as follows:\r\n_ for Aif +
    D and their likes = \xBD Space Width, \r\n_ for WAW = Zero (0)\r\n_ for R and
    the likes = Between (-) \xBC + (-) \xBD Space Width,then\r\n5. VOLTing R-Kern.\r\n\r\nWhen
    typesetting, do SWM (Space Width Modulation) as follows:\r\n1. Double the Spaces
    following the words that end with Aif, WAW + D and the likes,\r\n2. Tripple the
    Spaces following the words that end with R and the likes>\r\n\r\nThat's how I
    build + test my fonts, as I suggested in 2006 here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348\r\nAnd
    today, thanks to MaryamSoft Arabic Calligrapher + QalamBarter, I am doing Fine
    Designs.\r\n\r\nGood Luck with FineDesign!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2012-01-19 06:59:46'
- author:
    name: Badr Oraby
    picture: 112008
  body: "I think that what we seek here is to get the best of what we can of aesthetic
    form of Arabic Calligraphy, but must take into account the technical aspects of
    the aesthetic for the font before you start, including:\r\n= What methods invented
    by calligraphers to improve the format fonts?\r\n= Kashidas you could put in any
    place, or a base?\r\n\r\n= Calligraphers invented more than one way to increase
    the beauty of the \r\nfont and written texts, including:\r\n- Making different
    ligatures, some of which extend and some are reduced (ligature alternates).\r\n-
    Making various alternates of the same character, some of which extend \r\nand
    some are reduced (character alternates).\r\n- Overlay on top of each letter and
    gathered together in the form of beautiful (forms).\r\n- The invention of kashidas.
    \ :)\r\n\r\n= Kashidas is the recent use of it is less beautiful than all of the
    above, as it is just a plus lengthening between the characters, but to use it
    must follow certain rules, including:\r\n- May be placed kashidas between certain
    characters, and may not be between certain characters.\r\n- Kashidas have specific
    lengths, at least not more than.\r\n- Kashidas affected by the length, the more
    in length, the greater the concavity and depth.\r\n- Kashidas often affect the
    preceding character in it, as well as the next character to it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/111_4609.JPG]\r\n\r\nZuhair,
    You did a good job and wonderful, and I wish to continue, but I hope to take into
    account the technical aspects in addition kashidas, and do not fall in the problems
    of software that allows everything possible in the font like KALK or TASMEEM;
    because the average user has no ability to choose artistic combinations correct
    harmonious with each other."
  created: '2012-01-19 07:54:01'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite> ... do not fall in the problems of software that allows everything
    possible in the font like KALK or TASMEEM; because the average user has no ability
    to choose artistic combinations correct harmonious with each other.</cite>\r\n\r\n+1\r\n\r\nOne
    can build a very powerful system but 99% of users will just spoil it with insanely
    bad choices, so a less powerful system that does The Right Thing\u2122 most of
    the time is far more beneficial for most common use cases."
  created: '2012-01-19 08:22:41'
- author:
    name: Badr Oraby
    picture: 112008
  body: "One can build a very powerful system but 99% of users will just spoil it
    with insanely bad choices, so a less powerful system that does The Right Thing\u2122
    most of the time is far more beneficial for most common use cases.\r\n\r\n+\r\n\r\nThis
    is what should be in the computer fonts, which work directly on the systems and
    programs without need to special engine running.\r\n\r\n\r\nBadr"
  created: '2012-01-19 08:34:38'
- author:
    name: Badr Oraby
    picture: 112008
  body: "finedesign, \r\n\r\nYet, I do not use technical kashidas in my fonts, and
    rely on methods such as the above-mentioned ligatures and forms of longed letters
    (Al-Morsalah).\r\nOnce, I rely on some artistic additions that change the length
    of the word, such as the use of various forms of Teethed letters (\u0628 \u060C
    \u062A \u060C \u062B \u060C \u0646 \u060C \u064A\u0640 \u060C \u0626\u0640), as
    in the example:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nKashidas - from a technical perspective - need
    alternatives to a variety of characters preceding and following it; so I whole
    rules and put it in the form of a table, and then start working.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\nBadr[img:sites/default/files/old-images/\u0627\u0644\u0628\u0648\u0627\u0628\u0629_6076.png]"
  created: '2012-01-19 08:37:18'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Badr Oraby, This is what should be in the computer fonts, which work directly
    on the systems and programs without need to special engine running.\r\n\r\n\r\n1.
    Any Program that runs without special system?! TV or Radio Programs?!\r\n2. Any
    System that runs without special engine?! PC or Linux?!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-19 13:50:03'
- author:
    name: Badr Oraby
    picture: 112008
  body: "\r\nVery Good Work, Zuhair.\r\n\r\nI will back again to let you know some
    notes and this time it will be about using character alternates.\r\n\r\nBadr  "
  created: '2012-04-14 20:44:21'
- author:
    name: finedesign
    picture: 113705
  body: "I wish I could choose to be notified when these forums are updated. Zuhair,
    I'm very impressed with your font! And thank you everyone for sharing your wisdom.
    I'm indebted!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-11 21:56:40'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Thank you finedesign for appreciating the font. \r\n\r\nI think you have
    missed my new thread http://typophile.com/node/93945 showing much details about
    my font\r\n\r\nAlso watch \"Zuhair Albazi Naskh Font\" in a video\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zb2HvrNprM\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-15 03:13:27'
- author:
    name: Muhammad Rashid Shaikh
  body: "I want to develop a new font of Urdu Language(in Nastaleeq script) by using
    Calligarphic works of one of famous Calligrapher.\r\n\r\nI request all to please
    inform me step by step detail how I can achieve this goal.\r\n\r\nI shall be very
    thankful to him or her.\r\n\r\nWith best regards\r\n\r\nRashid Shaikh\r\n\r\nN.B.
    Special request of MR. JOHN HUDSON  to help me"
  created: '2012-08-07 08:33:50'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "As the discussion is about tatweel, I would like to share the Image of my
    Naskh Font with calligraphic tatweel and about 20 stylistic sets\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kashida_in_Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_4349.png]"
  created: '2012-08-11 12:37:14'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Tatweel (kashida) in my font after refining and some other features. Badr,
    I hope now kashida is in good shape.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_4230_6056.jpg]"
  created: '2012-08-11 12:40:17'
date: '2012-01-01 06:54:52'
node_type: forum
title: extending the line between Arabic letters

---
