---
author:
  name: neumann
  picture: 109611
body: "I have seen a lot of discussion and critique of this font in the tech press
  and amongst various geeky circles whose members are not actually trained in typographic
  forms. I came over to Typophile to see what you guys had said about it... only to
  find nothing (or at least a search for roboto returned zero results).\r\n\r\nSo
  I'm here now asking for thoughts about and critiques of this typeface. Here an article
  set in Roboto which more or less defends it.\r\nhttp://boingboing.net/2012/01/02/roboto.html\r\n\r\nTo
  me it is unattractive but I'm witholding judgement of it's functionality until I
  can see it on some of the hi-res mobile device screens for which it was designed.\r\n\r\nIf
  there was a discussion already had, would someone be so kind as to point me to it."
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: I suspect you read the Typographica post that was linked in the article. There's
    a lot of discussion in the comments there from folks in the industry.
  created: '2012-01-04 08:26:06'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "I can't read the first paragraph because some idiot code draws an iDevice
    on top of it. Anything interesting in there?\r\n\r\n(Initial thought: well <em>of
    course</em> it's going to be a compromise between type design and display technique,
    and clearly slanted towards the latter. Whether that's a good thing or not depends
    on your view of the use of type: as a thing of beauty in itself, where it adds
    to and enhances beautifully designed pages, thus making reading a joy; or you
    want to read on Twitter what your mate just had for lunch.)"
  created: '2012-01-04 13:39:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>I can't read the first paragraph [...]. Anything interesting in there?</cite>\r\n\r\n<blockquote
    cite=\"http://boingboing.net/2012/01/02/roboto.html\">Domo Arigato, Mr. Roboto\r\nBy
    Glenn Fleishman\r\nMonday, January 2, 2012 \u2022 Prefer dark text?\r\n\r\n\u201CI
    can\u2019t wake up one morning and say, \u2018Screw the letter B,\u2019\u201D
    type designer Matthew Carter told me last year when I interviewed him for the
    Economist, just after he had received a MacArthur Foundation \u201Cgenius\u201D
    fellowship. Carter, arguably the leading living creator and adapter of fonts in
    the Western world, was talking about the limits of pushing legibility and readability.\r\n\r\nI
    thought of his comment when a recent furor erupted over the new \u201Chouse\u201D
    font for Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich), called Roboto. Roboto is a bespoke
    sans-serif font, created by a Google employee and used throughout Android\u2019s
    user interface (UI) as part of the larger user experience (UX) overhaul. The intent
    is to make Android more intuitive, cohesive, and fluid, and work better on a variety
    of screen sizes, especially tablets. </blockquote>"
  created: '2012-01-04 14:47:32'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '''S funny... I did a few simple lo-res tests (render to PNG, then view) last
    night. Looks to me that Roboto is drawn for display with print getting The Finger,
    and I suspect <em>that</em> is the root of the diss-o-rama.'
  created: '2012-01-04 17:19:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">until I can see it on some of the <STRONG>hi-res mobile device screens</STRONG>
    for which it was designed\r\n\r\n>The intent is to make Android more intuitive,
    cohesive, and fluid, and work better on a <STRONG>variety of screen sizes</STRONG>,
    especially tablets. \r\n\r\nI think there's a bit of a contradiction here. A font
    \"designed\" for high-res, but part of an OS that will work on anything from 50
    DPI TV's down to 300+ DPI phones? \r\n"
  created: '2012-01-04 17:40:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I can\u2019t fault the designer, who was no doubt working to brief, and has
    done a lovely job of styling and fitting. Aesthetics and technics.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    nonetheless a generic face, not an original design.\r\n\r\nPerhaps that is appropriate
    for devices \u201Cpowered\u201D by (largely) open source software developed by
    the hive mind.\r\nAs close as one can get to aggregated/multi-designer generation
    without losing readability, within the constraints of type design, which has so
    far proved to be best crafted by one or two hands.\r\n\r\nIt would have been interesting
    if the powers that be at Google had requested something with more currency and
    personality, along the lines of Andes or Pluto, but that would not have fitted
    the android metaphor.\r\n\r\nReplicants however, as envisioned by Ridley Scott,
    had just as much character as the humans who created them.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAscenders
    taller than capitals is a nice typographic touch, and a departure from the classic
    grotesque model."
  created: '2012-01-04 19:10:37'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I read the linked article on an Android tablet, and I thought Roboto looked
    just fine in that setting. So it does what it sets out to do. I like its narrowness
    and long ascenders.\r\n\r\nBut I share in some of the gripes about the design.
    I have no problem with genericness or lack of character, nor do I get worked up
    about perceived borrowing from other designs per se. But what I saw as the main
    criticism in the Typographica post (which many casual readers seem to have understood
    as plagiarism), or at least my main criticism, is that Roboto combines features
    from various sans genres in a jarring manner.\r\n\r\nI've read Christian Robertson's
    rationale for making the lowercase 'e' more open than the lowercase 'a', and I
    understand it at an intellectual level. But when I remain unconvinced when I actually
    look at such a closed 'a' next to the open 'e'. These two letters are crucial
    to defining the feel of a text face, and for me the open 'e' sets a tone that
    is subtly contradicted by the closed 'a'. The effect is less pronounced at certain
    sizes, but at others it's enough to be distracting.\r\n\r\nThe single glyph that
    bothers me the most (maybe because it appears in the name of the typeface) is
    the distinctly Helvetica uppercase 'R'. It just doesn't seem to go with the other
    letters. Well, maybe it won't bother me so much when I get used to it."
  created: '2012-01-04 20:49:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Replicants however, as envisioned by Ridley Scott, had just as much character
    as the humans who created them.\r\n\r\nBut didn't they have much shorter life
    spans? Or was that the electric sheep?\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2012-01-04 21:00:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Yes, shorter life spans. Enabling Rutger Hauer to kick the bucket just in
    time to save Harrison Ford's life. Deus Ex Machina CAN work uncorny - as long
    as you prep for it.\r\n\r\nAnd talk about short life spans - the Electric Sheep
    had one hit in the sixties, that was it. I heard the lead singer owns a deli in
    Brighton Beach.\r\n\r\nAs for Roboto - the question ain't how it looks, it's how
    it fits.\r\n\r\n@jongseong\r\nSeriously - were you able to read the fracking letters
    ok? Did the meaning of what you were reading make it through to your brain? Jeez,
    you'd think this was a matter of life and death."
  created: '2012-01-05 00:01:54'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Seriously - were you able to read the fracking letters ok? Did
    the meaning of what you were reading make it through to your brain? Jeez, you'd
    think this was a matter of life and death.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nRichard, are you
    trolling? At a forum devoted to type, are you really surprised to read that someone
    takes design concerns (beyond the low bar of legibility) seriously?"
  created: '2012-01-05 00:44:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Richard, this is the friggin\u2019 Typophile thread, OK?\r\nYou may not be
    able to see the subtleties, but that doesn't mean they aren\u2019t there, or that
    they have no significance. They are important to professionals, which is how things
    are in most disciplines."
  created: '2012-01-05 00:45:24'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Well, the original poster did ask for thoughts and critiques, so I wanted
    to go a bit beyond "I can read the letters just fine."
  created: '2012-01-06 20:27:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> were you able to read the fracking letters ok?\r\n\r\nI assume you're using
    NotCaslon for the text of your book.\r\n\r\nConcerning Roboto: I'm personally
    not so negative about it.\r\nAnd I think some people who are have a conflicting
    agenda\r\nor an emotional dependency on a certain Google rival.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-07 06:46:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Speaking as someone with neither a conflicting agenda nor an emotional dependency
    on a certain Google rival -- indeed, speaking as the pleased owner of a Google
    'super phone' -- I think the Roboto font is a mess of contradictory idioms and
    nothing like as good as the Droid fonts. That said, most of the contradictions
    do not draw attention at the size the type appears in the UI, and it is only when
    c and e appear next to each other that part of my mind thinks WTF?
  created: '2012-01-07 19:50:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Me:<em>\"Seriously - were you able to read the fracking letters ok? Did the
    meaning of what you were reading make it through to your brain? Jeez, you'd think
    this was a matter of life and death.\"</em>\r\n\r\nHey, I was certainly expecting
    some sh-t for this comment. Ain't clueless about attitudes here at T-phile, y'know.\r\nJust
    checking, checking for pulses. It's been kind of quiet here lately.\r\n\r\nYes,
    <em>of course</em>, it's a matter of life and death."
  created: '2012-01-08 04:43:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's an entire universe between irrelevant and life & death.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-08 05:05:49'
- author:
    name: apetickler
    picture: 112298
  body: "I thought Droid, like the Ubuntu family, had a bit too much character for
    its own good. To me, it was another example of how the open source community often
    seems to think design is the act of making things as flashy as the guys with the
    money do. Remember when all the Linux people were excited about rotating cube
    desktops and windows burning to ashes when you hit the close button?\r\n\r\nAfter
    that, I love how damned sensible Roboto is. I\u2019ve been using Ice Cream Sandwich
    for about a month and a half now, and I never thought I\u2019d be so comfortable
    reading for long periods of time on a phone.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve seen some of those
    examples of it looking funny when you take two geometrically incongruent characters
    and put them next to each other at 72 points. It reminds me of when I was a teenager
    and, for the first time, I looked, <em>really looked,</em> at the capital R in
    Arial. That was when I began my Arial-hating phase that everyone seems to go through
    when they\u2019re young and na\xEFve; I still see people online all the time goin\u2019
    all \u201CLook at that capital R. Just look at it!\u201D\r\n\r\nOf course, that\u2019s
    completely irrelevant to how we read text in the real world, especially on a screen.
    I wouldn\u2019t put a headline in Roboto, but I\u2019d much rather read a novel
    in it than in Segoe or Helvetica."
  created: '2012-01-10 21:19:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly letterform divergence rarely gets due credit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-10 23:35:03'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Now that apparently the worst technical bugs in Roboto have been fixed, I'd
    like to ask the proponents of the \xBBRelease early, release often\xAB line of
    thought where the updated versions are to be found. All sources that you can find
    via Google search point to the buggy versions from last October (FontSquirrel,
    various blog entries &c.)\r\n\r\n(Yes, <em>I</em> know how to download the Java
    Runtime, then download the Android SDK, then update the Android SDK, then to figure
    out and work around unclear Windows error messages, then eventually manage to
    install the Android 4 platform package in the Android SDK and find a bunch of
    fonts in some subdirectory.)"
  created: '2012-01-12 14:34:07'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'You can get the most recent cut here: http://developer.android.com/design/style/typography.html'
  created: '2012-01-13 22:04:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Is there a place to log bugs? l-dot in the black seemed a bit \"unusual\".\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2012-01-13 23:31:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Release prematurely and then confuse the hell out of everybody.\r\nIt works!\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    I still dig GWF's idea of hinting:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/webfonthinting_5513.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    I especially like the globbed crossbar effect, here:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crossbar_5797.png]"
  created: '2012-01-14 17:04:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Richard, you can still read it, right?...  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-14 17:25:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Just to be clear, the screenshots in my previous post are whatever font is
    being used at developer.android.com site. In Windows. On browsers using GDI. Which
    is just about everybody except IE9.\r\n\r\nAnother thing I don't get: Android
    is a mobile platform. Bandwidth is a concern.\r\nRoboto-Medium is 157 kb.\r\nWow.\r\n\r\nIn
    fairness, it's got a pretty extensive character set.\r\n\r\nBut even still, there
    are completely useless entries in the name table that takes up bytes, a DSIG (not
    sure how big), kerning data which is mostly useless due to lack of support in
    browsers. (Can the Android App API make use of it, I wonder?)\r\nAnd if you ask
    me, the small caps are better off spun out as a subsidiary font of their own.
    A more practical arrangement considering, once again, the lack of support for
    advanced OT features.\r\n\r\nOnce again, the TT hinting is beyond my understanding:\r\n\r\nIn
    Windows GDI, as is:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/badhint_5222.png]\r\n\r\nAs
    opposed to this, redone with little effort:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/goodhint_4036.png]\r\n\r\nYes,
    it's only two lines of caps at 19px, (for brevity), but there are discrepancies
    like this at EVERY size. (Less so at large sizes, of course.) Take a look in any
    HTML specimen sheet, by all means.\r\nHow does something that looks this shoddy
    in so many environments get released?\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-14 18:01:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "hrant, I get your point, man. Give it a rest. You're bringing back the heartburn
    I got from that restaurant you took me to in LA, so give me a break. (Naw, just
    joking. It was really good. Liked the dessert place, too.)\r\n\r\nWe are talking
    about two completely different KINDS of defects here.\r\n\r\nOne is the shape
    of the letterforms - a matter of taste.\r\n\r\nThe other is the technical botchery
    of the rendering of those letterforms, well designed, poorly designed, or somewhere
    in between. \r\n\r\nOK? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-14 18:10:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">How does something that looks this shoddy in so many environments get released?\r\n\r\nAgree
    they could do better re. hinting, but I think it's clear that this is first and
    foremost a UI font for Android 4.0 \"high-res screens\". Releasing under an OSS
    license and GWF availability are really a bonus.\r\n\r\nThe Droid fonts spoiled
    us. They were developed and hinted by professionals for Android v.1. I have absolutely
    no idea why earlier versions of Android running on lower res screens didn't utilize
    the hinting. Although the reason may rhyme with \"grapple  combatants\" :-) \r\n "
  created: '2012-01-14 18:22:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Richard, I really think they're two facets of the same issue.\r\nIt's all
    \"technical\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-14 18:44:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sunday, Wednesday, same diff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-15 04:13:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\n<em>\"this is first and foremost a UI font for Android 4.0 'high-res
    screens'. Releasing under an OSS license and GWF availability are really a bonus.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI
    thought of that, too. But by what magic does Roboto look good as a UI font when
    warts are so clearly visible as a plain-old web font in a browser?\r\nDon't know.\r\nI'll
    put together a test page and take a peek on my son's Motorola Android phone as
    well as my Amazon Fire. Plus there's probably an emulator I should have installed
    and handy, anyway. \r\n(BTW - the Fire's display hasn't garnered much praise in
    the blogosphere, but I find it excellent, with body text noticeably sharper than
    on the iPad 2. Perhaps a tad less sharp than the iPhone's Retina display. And
    for watching HD TV, I can't imagine anything better.)\r\n\r\n@hrant\r\nWhat!!??
    I'll come back tomorrow and respond after I've read the entire thread again to
    see if you've got a leg to stand on.\r\nNothing like a Sunday afternoon argument.
    (If warranted.) :-)\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-15 15:49:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And for watching HD TV, I can't imagine anything better.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    an HD TV?"
  created: '2012-01-15 16:56:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nWell, I suppose it all depends on what you're watching.\r\n\r\n@hrant\r\nWednesday
    works for me."
  created: '2012-01-16 05:12:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "\"Another thing I don't get: Android is a mobile platform. Bandwidth is a
    concern. Roboto-Medium is 157 kb. Wow.\"\r\n\r\nOf what concern is the size of
    a UI font when it comes to bandwidth? You're not downloading it, it's already
    on the phone. (Unless you're using it as a webfont, but there are much better
    fonts to choose from if you're going that route, unless you insist on open source
    fonts, in which case there is no help for you.)\r\n\r\n-----\r\n\r\nI hate it
    primarily because the name sounds like something from 2002 Free Fonts."
  created: '2012-01-16 08:38:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@Dan &ndash; Open-source fonts, especially those with an [[http://www.opensource.org/licenses|OSI-approved
    licence]], can always be used legally as webfonts.'
  created: '2012-01-16 15:57:34'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: rich, when you say 'redone with little effort' could you be a little more
    specific?
  created: '2012-01-17 02:21:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Dan Gayle who said:\r\n\r\n<em>\"Of what concern is the size of a UI font
    when it comes to bandwidth?\"</em>\r\n\r\nWell, just because it's being promoted
    and labeled as a \"UI\" font, doesn't mean it's a pre-loaded \"system\" font.
    I think we've got some semantic confusion here. The way I see it - it's still
    a web font which, at some point, will download along with an app or a web page.
    At that point, it might be cached, it might not be, depending.\r\n\r\n@abattis\r\nDave
    said:>rich, when you say 'redone with little effort' could you be a little more
    specific?\r\n\r\nNo.\r\nBut I will because you are Dave. But allow me to fall
    back on my ethnic heritage and answer your question with a question: Would you
    consider processing the font with ttfautohint \"little effort\"? Last month I
    processed a font for the monthly issue of Konstellations and that was about all
    I had to do to get it looking good, cross platform. Right now, that's a rarity
    with ttfautohint, but once in awhile you can hit the jackpot.\r\n\r\nBut on the
    other hand, tonight I was struggling with a font where the height of the numerals
    fell in between the x-height and the caps line - always a problem for me, at least
    right now. No easy solution to getting the horizontal alignment right. (Autohinters
    seem to focus on x-height and caps height and sometimes if you hold your breath,
    the ascenders come out right.)\r\n\r\nBut getting back to the numerals: they CAN
    be done without \"cheating\" by scaling them up to the caps height. (Which I admit,
    deadline nearing, I have done.)\r\nBut it took about an hour of drudgery for those.
    The rest of the font processed smoothly. Now, compared to using VTT, I would call
    two hours or so of work, \"little effort\".\r\nIf we take forty hours as a baseline
    for manually hinting a 256 character font, getting nearly the same job done -
    or sometimes done better - in 5% of the time, I consider little effort. And a
    great value proposition, too. I end up with a font that I can deploy with confidence,
    knowing it will look good in any browser on any platform with no further ado.\r\n\r\nBTW
    - well-crafted (and THOROUGH!) HTML test pages are essential. Those took considerable
    effort, and I STILL have a little more work to do on those before I'm 100% satisfied
    - even though I've been at this for about a year now. A test bed is essential,
    too, and there's certainly been effort there - in integrating everything - apart
    from the money spent. You have to have at least one Mac and one Windows box and
    at least one Android device and I consider the iPad and iPhone essentials, as
    well. \r\nLoaded up with the major browsers - some past and some present.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is why I'm left wondering if there are any nasties lurking in the font hrant got
    from the FS Generator. Without good test pages, problems hide like cockroaches.\r\n\r\nI
    sincerely hope not, but I'd be curious as to what HTML pages hrant is relying
    upon for his assessment of \"acceptable\". \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 07:05:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "But ain't Roboto just another near-clone based on the gross metrics and the
    same bitmaps of a small size(s) of aliased Helvetica/Swiss721/Arial? Look closely.\r\n\r\nMe
    thinks we are just seeing the familiarly readable rehashed by the next generation
    of developers, (or... \"the rich\" just keep getting \"poorer\"?)"
  created: '2012-01-17 14:05:38'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'the fonts are unhinted, they just come in a folder called Hinted. '
  created: '2012-01-17 15:16:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Is this true for the web fonts used to render the content on the Android
    design pages, or just the download package?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 17:17:28'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "both\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 17:52:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mike, that reminds me of when I was shopping for a car,\r\nand asked what
    the \"4\" in \"4\xD72\" meant if the car was not\r\n4-wheel-drive. The lady said
    it means it has 4 wheels.\r\nI said it's a good thing it's not a \"3\xD72\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 18:23:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And a street luge would be a \"4\xD70\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 18:37:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "So a motorbike would be a \"2\xD71\"?"
  created: '2012-01-17 18:39:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "db> Me thinks we are just seeing the familiarly readable rehashed by the
    next generation of developers, \r\n\r\n+1. This theory makes sense - a UI font
    that's much closer in appearance (and metrics) to how most people view search
    results. "
  created: '2012-01-17 19:01:38'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@hrant &ndash; Had it been a 3&times;2, you would have had a Robin Reliant
    and become the butt of even more jokes.\r\n\r\n@Sii &ndash; Correct. The formula
    is <code>number_of_wheels</code> &times; <code>number_of_powered_wheels</code>.
    Some manufacturers add a third factor, <code>number_of_steering_wheels</code>.
    They, of course, are the ones making mongo eckspensif four-wheeled sport cars
    with all-wheel steering."
  created: '2012-01-18 10:35:14'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>@hrant \u2013 Had it been a 3\xD72</cite>\r\nIt would've been a DS:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VWiRxHJHNWc"
  created: '2012-01-18 12:27:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Robin Reliant\r\n\r\nUnless it was front wheel drive... \"3\xD71\"!\r\n\r\nNow
    the DS, that thing was way ahead of its time. It even\r\nhad headlights that rotated
    with the steering, so you could\r\nactually see where you're going. And to tortuously
    somehow\r\ntie this into fonts: the French car design industry was the\r\none
    to give us beziers!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-18 14:37:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "'merkan 3-wheeler:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dymaxion-001_6158.jpg]"
  created: '2012-01-18 16:51:13'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@hrant &ndash; Of course I hadta reverse the name&hellip; it&rsquo;s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reliant_Robin|Reliant
    Robin]].\r\n\r\n@riccard0 &ndash; The only way a DS could be cooler is with a
    flat six and a CVT tranny.\r\n\r\n@Nick &ndash; <em>This&hellip;</em> is a real-life
    <em>car?!?</em> Bloody&hellip; It makes the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinclair_C5|Sinclair
    C5]] look cool!"
  created: '2012-01-19 12:00:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Reynir, that\u2019s Bucky Fuller\u2019s Dymaxion.\r\nThe prototype crashed
    (1933) and killed the driver, it never went into production.\r\nHere\u2019s the
    Robin:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Reliant_5768.jpg]"
  created: '2012-01-19 20:12:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Now I know where the Russian Ryebread (the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UAZ-452|UAZ
    452]]) got its styling cues from.
  created: '2012-01-20 16:10:47'
date: '2012-01-04 08:08:09'
title: Google's Roboto font for Android

---
