---
author:
  name: stephen_k
body: "Hi\r\n\r\nI'm looking for an elegant serif that works well at around 10pt and
  also has a display/titling cut for use at about 22pt. I've been looking at monotype's
  pro version of Bembo however the regular text weight looks a bit fat and clumsy
  at 10pt (it will be litho printed \u2013 no letterpress). The Titling cut is beautiful
  though.\r\n\r\nAnyone got any ideas?\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\nS"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "It may be a generational thing. To me Bembo book looks about right for a
    10-11 point text setting. But as an old man, I grew up reading books set in hot
    metal, printed either letterpress or from stereo plates.\r\n\r\nMany Postscript
    fonts, now printed direct-to-plate offset, look too thin and spindly to me. I
    can make my argument -- the best font designers of any period look at the letterforms
    as they print, and adjust the \"original\" letterforms weight and contrast according
    to the printed sample -- but we are still talking about a fashion. One man's thin
    and spindly is, I guess, another's perfection.\r\n\r\nTake a look at Penguin books
    of the 1950s and '60s set in Bembo. How do they look to you? \r\n\r\nI will have
    to admit that I made up a version of Bembo for us to use for text setting, reweighting
    \"regular\" Bembo, back in the mid-1990s. Also changed ascenders & descenders,
    and the contrast of thick/thin strokes, etc. All this two or three ownerships
    of Monotype ago, when you could still get permission to modify a font from Monotype.
    So I've never felt the need to use the newer book weight, but it looks pretty
    close to what we came up with, when trying to match Bembo as printed letterpress
    by the Stinehour press, from the cast type.\r\n\r\nAs for other ideas. Just now,
    I'm high on Espinosa Nova. It is not perfect, and I've reworked it some & will
    do more for our peculiar taste (with Henestrosa's permission), but as a modern
    Venetian, I think it one of the best.\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/estudio-ch/espinosa-nova/"
  created: '2012-01-09 13:19:17'
- author:
    name: natedaub
  body: "What about SabonNext from linotype?\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/53159/sabonnext-family.html\r\n\r\nIt
    is a very beautiful serif typeface with a wide range of weights.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>As
    for other ideas. Just now, I'm high on Espinosa Nova. It is not perfect, and I've
    reworked it some & will do more for our peculiar taste (with Henestrosa's permission),
    but as a modern Venetian, I think it one of the best.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI agree
    with charles_e, too. Espinosa Nova is very attractive and has quite a few nice
    variations."
  created: '2012-01-09 15:03:56'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>What about SabonNext from linotype?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf only they'd named
    it \"Yet Another Nice Garamond\" & removed Tschichold's name as designer."
  created: '2012-01-09 15:32:38'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Font Bureau offers several great and elegant typefaces in text and display
    variants, sometimes with even more versions in between like <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fontbureau/miller/\">Miller
    Text, Display,</a> Daily, Headline and Banner.\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller\r\n\r\nOr
    search on <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/search/tag%3A%22optical+sizes%22/fonts/?refby=i\">MyFonts
    for \u201Coptical sizes\u201D.</a>"
  created: '2012-01-15 22:08:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It sounds very much like you want Cycles:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/stone/cycles/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-15 22:21:04'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "If you look for the Bembonian taste, look at [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/andreas-stotzner/andron-1-lat-corpus/|Andron]]
    as well. Andron Corpus is optimized to look not too thin in 9\u202612p setting.\r\nDisplay
    cuts available on request."
  created: '2012-01-16 10:45:24'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Andron is great! A beautiful renaissance old style! Andreas, it seems you
    have some really nice features of your typeface not published yet. If I remember
    correctly there are Mid-Caps as well planned for the future?\r\n\r\nCycles is
    fantastic, if you do are fine with regular, italic and semibold cuts only. The
    same with Clifford, which comes in three optical sizes, limited to regular and
    italics. \r\n\r\nA very complete renaissance old style is of course Arno. Different
    design genre: Freight. If you want to play it safe: Minion.\r\n\r\nHere is a list
    of fonts with text and display cuts:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/67229"
  created: '2012-01-16 17:20:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Question: Do you guys ever look at type printed high-resolution, using an
    offset press?\r\n\r\nIMSLTHO, some of these fonts would (probably) look great
    printed with a polymer plate, or offset, using repro-negative-plate technology,
    the printing method they were drawn for. DTP, no.\r\n\r\nNot all of them, of course.
    Miller is an exception, though I wouldn't call it an elegant face. And some I've
    never tried. The point is, look at how they print with the specific technology
    you will use. Your somewhat less than humble opinion might be different from mine,
    that's OK too. Just be sure to take a good, long look at the type as it will be
    used."
  created: '2012-01-17 04:33:38'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: Charles, this is going slightly offtopic but I'm very much interested in your
    argument. Could you specify it? In which way - I mean with which printing technique
    - typefaces like Minion, Arno, Freight, Cycles, Clifford and Andron wouldn't look
    good when printed? Perhaps you mean they were designed to be printed offset, and
    not digital?
  created: '2012-01-17 08:47:05'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Andron [\u2026] Mid-Caps as well planned for the future?</cite>.\r\n\r\nI
    cannot say honestly \u2018planned\u2019. But there is a range of (older) medior
    PS fonts and some newer incomplete test fonts as well. It\u2019s not just about
    mid-caps but also about mid-uncials or mid-lowercase sorts. For Andron, medior
    letters apply at least for Latin, Greek, Coptic and Irish, for Gothic of course.
    I can\u2019t say when they will see a release.\r\n\r\n<cite>Do you guys ever look
    at type printed [\u2026] ?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis question seems a little funny to
    me.\r\nI think a good 600dpi laserprinter is the ever best what can happen to
    a didital typeface. Yes better than super-high-res offset printing.\r\nOnce a
    book was set in Andron. As the publisher rejected any pre-press concerns the typesetter
    hat to print out every page (Hundreds) and she did so on a rather poor laser device.
    Then all those prints were scanned \u2013 y e s !! \u2013 and the book finally
    printed from the scanns. \u2013 In the end it looked like a re-print of a letterpress-book
    from the 60ies. ;-) not bad."
  created: '2012-01-17 09:46:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think a good 600dpi laserprinter is the ever\r\n> best what can happen
    to a didital typeface.\r\n\r\nIf you mean that 600dpi laser is enough, that's
    not true (for a text face).\r\nThe minimum is 1200dpi (and it still requires experience
    to \"interpret\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 14:05:52'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Charles, this is going slightly offtopic but I'm very much interested
    in your argument. Could you specify it? In which way - I mean with which printing
    technique - typefaces like Minion, Arno, Freight, Cycles, Clifford and Andron
    wouldn't look good when printed? Perhaps you mean they were designed to be printed
    offset, and not digital?</cite>\r\n\r\nFirst of all, I haven't used all the typefaces
    you mention. And I feel OK publicly criticizing, if that's what it is, a large
    publisher like Adobe, but not the smaller ones.\r\n\r\nYou should know that pretty
    much all through the 1990s, the offset plate was burned by using negatives. And
    for a good part of it, the negatives were made from a positive, the typset \"repro\"
    -- the negatives were only directly imaged in the late 1990s. \r\n\r\nAt each
    photographic stage, the type usually picked up weight. There were reasons why
    the repro was \"overexposed\" and the negative \"underexposed.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    good type designers adjust the weight and contrast of their letterforms based
    on what they see when the type is \"printed\"; is used as intended. So, going
    back to metal, the punch was inked & pressed into paper to see how the ink flowed,
    and the punch adjusted accordingly. Same with photocomp -- adjust the letterforms
    so the weigh and contrast are what you want when eventually printed.\r\n\r\nNow
    take away the slightly everexposed repro and underexposed negative; you can make
    the plate directly from the computer file. But the type gained weight and the
    contrast was affected by those now-gone portions of the workflow. Nor could the
    printer compensate when making the plate, because the ever-present images were
    now in the same file. If you \"darkened\" the type when making the plate, the
    dotgain on the images would go through the roof.\r\n\r\nAll this within the life
    of Type-1 postscript fonts, which were not changed as printing changed. The printed
    type was clearer, but thinner. About half the distance between a regular and a
    medium. And by the way, those old Type-1 fonts became the new OpenType fonts,
    usually with no adjustment to the weight and contrast. Look at a book set in Minion
    about 1994, and compare it to a book set in the same Minion today. And printed
    offset, not \"digitally.\"\r\n\r\nSo I spent a week going back to the old Type-1
    Minion multiple masters fonts to make new OpenType versions, with new weights
    for our work. BTW, I did talk to some type people at Adobe about this. They said
    the created the medium weight for bookwork. And I know people who agree -- problem
    is, they're people who do art books, always printed on coated papers, where the
    inkspread is less. To my eye, Minion medium is right on the edge, OK for coated
    sheets, but too heavy for uncoated. I think what we came up with will work for
    either. This from looking at printed books.\r\n\r\nNone of this touches on \"digital
    printing,\" it is all within the offset world. I'm no expert on digital printing,
    but the little I've seen has the letterforms heavier than even the old offset
    printing, with repro-negative-plate. Closer to 1200 dpi laser printing. And no
    wonder. That will probably change fairy soon, who's to say?\r\n\r\nI do think
    two, or maybe three weights can cover text for most forms of printing used today
    -- 2012. It's just that the type we have hasn't been tailored for them. YMMV.\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 14:56:51'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Funny enough, although I am not a professional in the graphic industry, I
    did print Cycles offset. And I did print the same content with a digital print
    (I assume laser) as well at the same printer (first batch). I don\u2019t really
    remember the comparison between them, one was thinner, and more rich in contrast,
    the other a bit more heavy, but both looked good to me. Maybe could be a bit heavier,
    but I am no expert to judge that. If I find the samples again I could take pictures
    of it. \r\n\r\nHowever dark text fonts are very en vogue, probably as a result
    of the problem you explained. \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/51171"
  created: '2012-01-17 15:23:29'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "Thanks for the very informative explanation Charles. I agree that most of
    the earlier digitizations of types born in the metal / photocomp era lack in \"presence\".
    I usually set books printed in offset (and sometimes digitally) and I have experienced
    that, besides the kind of paper, the results also depend on the printer's settings.
    Sometimes, unfortunately, the black is too grayish. As for the difference between
    offset and digital print, here are a couple of shots where one can see how, in
    offset print (second image), a typeface tends to be \"heavier\". That said, it's
    hard to get, even in a nicely printed offset page, the same look of a letterpress
    printed page.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/digital_type_3452_4557.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/offset_type_5160_5845.jpg]"
  created: '2012-01-17 15:58:47'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Nicola,\r\n\r\nYes, the ink matters too. We have a small-run book printer
    in the States who esp. uses grayish inks, and did so even back in the days before
    ecological concerns affected ink and solvent choices.\r\n\r\nThe saving grace
    with this is the eye adjusts to what is \"black\" fairly quickly, so the reader
    is probably less affected than us as examiners. Too thin is an entirely different
    matter. There are typefaces I just can't read after 5:00pm, when my eyes are tired.
    The type simply floats off the page.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nYes, with letterpress,
    the ink is pushed outward, and if you use a strong loupe, you can see almost a
    black ring around the outside of the printed letterform. Offset printing gives
    more even black; if there is a concentration of the black, it is in the middle
    of the strokes."
  created: '2012-01-17 16:20:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles, on the grey of offset printing, I've compared old letter press printed
    print and modern offset under a 50X magnification. The letter press looked black
    with white lines (the print was on rag paper) running through it. The offset looked
    like a uniform granite, a mottled mixed gray and white dots. So it seems that
    the dots originating in the rasterizing process are still there in offset printing.
    The grey, if I've got it right, is not just from the ink but the rasterizing-offset
    combination. It might be an improvement if someone invented a better process for
    digital and offset print, with either greater dot density, or a second hit over
    the first, which would exactly fill in the holes. That would increase apparent
    blackness, without changing the ink.   \r\n\r\nI should also mention my own [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/WilliamsCaslonText/|Williams
    Caslon Text]], which was designed to remedy the excessive lightness of many digital
    fonts, and hit the right balance between apparent darkness against the page, and
    enough white shining out within and around the characters. I've seen it work both
    on coated paper (Boston Magazine) and uncoated (the recent Foliomania!, published
    by the Folger Shakespeare Library, with their exhibition on first folios.) "
  created: '2012-01-17 16:41:36'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I realize that I misunderstood the problem, that when you talk about the
    \u201Ccolor\u201D of offset, you guys really mean the brightness-level of the
    ink, but when speaking of the \u201Ccolor\u201D of a typeface it is meant how
    thick the strokes are and if there is much or little contrast in stroke-width.
    So offset actually makes the letters \u201Cbigger\u201D in comparison to digital
    print, but the ink itself is not so dark (as in letter press)? Thanks for your
    comment Williams, that made it clear for me. "
  created: '2012-01-17 17:26:16'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Florian,\r\n\r\nNo, I use \"color\" they way you do.\r\n\r\nI think the \"color\"
    of a digital press, those I've seen anyway, is heavier than with an offset press.
    With digital printing, the letterforms are thicker, fatter, less distinct than
    with an offset press. I've seen several books printed both ways, and side by side,
    I can tell the difference at 3 feet, with my glasses off."
  created: '2012-01-17 17:42:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Florian, there are both issues. I commented on both, and failed to note the
    difference. There is both an issue of the physical blackness of the letters on
    the printed page, and the visual \"color\" of the text, which has to do with the
    design of the letters\u2014width of the strokes, and how they vary, the size of
    the counters and spacing, etc.  \r\n\r\nAs Charles notes, there can be an interaction
    between the two. One font may work well on rough paper, and fail on coated paper
    and visa versa.\r\n\r\nCharles, has printing direct to plate also made any significant
    difference as to how typefaces work on paper?  "
  created: '2012-01-17 17:48:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Charles, has printing direct to plate also made any significant
    difference as to how typefaces work on paper?</cite>\r\n\r\nBill \u2014 I believe
    that is precisely what Charles was describing in his <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/88920#comment-491613\">17
    Jan 2012 \u2014 6:56 am</a> post about the elimination of repros and negatives.
    \r\n\r\nSome gain has been lost.\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 19:20:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Kent. I read that but I wasn''t sure it was referring to the same
    thing. When doing Williams Caslon Text I had that in mind, so I figured if anything
    err on the side of darker color. I tested it then with output from an image printer
    on "RC Paper," which at that time a local place could do. That has just the gain
    of the direct image, without the next step of offset. I was hopeful that it would
    work out, but admit I held my breath when I saw the first copy of Boston Magazine,
    and then, thank goodness, was able to breathe a sigh of relief.  '
  created: '2012-01-17 19:35:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm so upset that RC-paper (AKA Velox) printing is nearly impossible to find
    now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 20:25:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "There are really two things going on here. \r\n\r\nThe first is an aesthetic
    one, \"What does a good typeface look like?\" Part of this is fashion. The original
    poster asked for good looking \"classic\" serif fonts for text and 22-point display.
    And he found Bembo (I'd guess the book weight) a bit fat and clumsy at a 10-point
    setting. Now that's not how I see Bembo book. In one way, that's no big deal,
    we just disagree.\r\n\r\nThe second is a typeface that doesn't work as its designer
    intended. That is a big deal; it's a disappointment. We've all had that kind of
    disappointment, and probably will again, but it's nice to avoid when possible.
    That's why I say \"test the type all the way through to its intended use.\"\r\n\r\nMore
    subtle is in between, where the designer gets exactly what they intended, but
    a significant number of users say \"I wish it were a little XXXXXer\".\r\n\r\nThere
    is another kind of in between; as I read what I've written, someone could take
    the words to mean you need a different weight for each use, for each type of printing
    technology. I don't think this is universally true. But there are a number of
    fonts that lie on the edge, like, say, Merlo. \r\n\r\nTake Merlo. There are a
    couple designers I respect who feel it is very nice. And I, and some other designers
    I respect equally, find it a bit too heavy; we just can't get it to work set over
    10 points. \r\n\r\nNow is this just fashion? Just personal taste? We say we want
    the same things out of a typeface, and yet in the event, wind up disagreeing.
    OK, that does happen. But in my small world of offset printed books, a bit of
    poking showed a difference: the people who liked Merlo were by in large also people
    who design mainly art books, books that will be printed on coated stocks. The
    people who though it a bit too heavy designed mainly texts that would be printed
    on uncoated stock. \r\n\r\nI found this out by accident; I finally saw Merlo used
    with a book printed on coated paper. My reaction was \"Wow -- I like this.\"\r\n\r\nSo
    sometimes there is an explanation, and those are good to find; because we learn
    from them. With the above perspective, I can *usually* weight a font so it lies
    in the middle, and will work on either kind of sheet.\r\n\r\nThat's one big point,
    I think. There are a number of fonts that lie on an edge; they're so close to
    not working well that the size set, or the ink used, or the paper, or, or, or
    can create a problem. Often enough, some subtle adjustments can remove many issues.\r\n\r\n(Of
    course, I'm long past the Pollyanna stage -- there is also disagreement where
    sometimes somebody's clearly wrong ...) ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 21:23:29'
date: '2012-01-09 12:44:06'
node_type: forum
title: Classic serif at text size and display?

---
