---
author:
  name: Jeremy Dooley
  picture: 110877
body: "Recently, I have been working with Robbie de Villiers to develop a typeface
  for Chattanooga. Municipal typefaces are very much in vogue in Europe, but they
  have not happened in the United States. There's a variety of reasons for that, but
  this is something I want to see happen more often here in United States. We need
  to have some sort of a method to kick start this process here in United States.
  It is not expected to receive any sort of public support or moneys.\r\n\r\nWe are
  very excited to make an impact on the local culture here. The face has been extremely
  well received so far. Originally we looked at a lot of historical influences, especially
  the city\u2019s Cherokee foundations. But we ultimately dismissed those because
  the city is trying to position itself as a very sophisticated and forward-looking
  technological power. Robbie and I both had our own approaches to the font, and ultimately
  I took them together and did a font blend. From that blend we identified some common
  characteristics and carried them forward into a typeface both of us are happy with.
  The family retains a number of characteristics from both me and Robbie. I also look
  forward to potentially explaining the process of how we are able to navigate the
  local politics and also work with local designers in Chattanooga to get this project
  started, perhaps at Typecon or ATYPI.\r\n\r\nThe plan is to develop this typeface
  with support from individuals on Kickstarter. This typeface will be a four-weight
  family for the exclusive use of the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee. We have local
  support from the designers that ultimately will be using the product, and we also
  have some support from local politicians who will assist us in the implementation
  of the project. We are looking for your assistance as well in providing some financial
  support for the development project. We will not sell the project because we will
  be giving it away for free, but the typeface will be exclusively for the use of
  Chattanooga related projects. We have been encouraged that several local designers
  have asked for beta versions of the font to use with city projects.\r\n\r\nThere
  is a potential new market for typefaces for municipalities in United States. We
  hope that you will partner with us to make this a reality. This is a win-win for
  the typographic community and also for designers in United States. We really hope
  that this will add a distinctive new aspect of culture here in Chattanooga, and
  I hope that you will partner with our team in this endeavor. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/chatype/chatype-a-typeface-for-chattanooga-tennessee|Kickstarter
  Information]]\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nJDooley\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: Your Kickstarter link doesn't work.
  created: '2012-01-22 05:48:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: You have to delete the inadvertent bracket at the end of the link and then
    it works.
  created: '2012-01-22 06:05:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">but they have not happened in the United States. \r\n\r\nHow about...\r\n\r\nhttp://www1.umn.edu/news/news-releases/2003/UR_RELEASE_MIG_588.html "
  created: '2012-01-22 07:17:14'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "And another thing. You look kinda silly when you call yourself typographers.
    It\u2019s \u201Ctype designers\u201D. Should\u2019ve learned that by now!"
  created: '2012-01-22 13:44:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I see more use for this kind of thing than the other Kickstarter typeface
    that came up here a little while ago, but not so sure if it will get the same
    kind of attention. I mean, this is not just a trendy display face that\u2019ll
    grow old in a week (Or is it? Might be a case for dropping the stencil gaps.),
    but unfortunately the only ones to really benefit from this are based in your
    neighbourhood. So \u2026 why not ask local businesses for sponsoring?"
  created: '2012-01-22 13:47:09'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Sii, Twin was one of the inspirations for this project. Robbie owns the book
    documenting its development, and we found Twin was never truly implemented on
    a citywide scale, and Unfortunately remains just a extremely well-designed curiosity.
    Our objective is to have this be the first implemented typeface for a municipal
    area in the United States.\r\n\r\nWe have partnered with a local design firm,
    D+J to assist us in reaching the local community. We are having a AIGA sponsored
    event at a local gathering place to get feedback and support. D+J [[http://workwith.dj/]]
    have provided a number of contacts, local designers and local politicians who
    ultimately will be the ones who can help us most with officially implementing
    the project, an important distinction between us and Twin.\r\n\r\nFrode, I was
    just posting to let the typographic community know that this effort is underway.
    Our primary push is to the local Chattanooga community and businesses to foster
    support for this project. I anticipate that we will do very well with that as
    we have a number of invested individuals who really want this project to work,
    even outside of the graphic design community. Consider this post just a very small
    branch of what we are doing. I do think that the typographic community as a whole
    would do well to pay attention to this idea, as it could open a brand-new market
    if we are successful.\r\n\r\nYou mentioned the stencil design, and I agree. The
    consensus thus far is that the stencil design will not be the primary form, but
    our initial experiments required a very distinctive display type to highlight
    its differences to the community here. We are planning a number of style sets
    so that different areas the community can feel they are included in this project.
    For one particular area, we will have a style set so that even though the font
    is for Chattanooga, the smaller areas can still have their own identity, but be
    part of that overall identity. That is one of the great things about using a typeface
    as branding.\r\n\r\nAnd, I am aware of the distinction of a typographer and type
    designer, but one battle at a time.\r\n\r\nThank you all for your interest and
    comments thus far. The team welcomes anything more you have to say about the project.\r\n\r\nJDooley"
  created: '2012-01-22 17:53:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Twin was never truly implemented\r\n\r\nProbably because it was over-designed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-22 21:28:21'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'The Twin Cities project was fascinating because of the thoughtful explorations
    of location and culture in relationship to letterforms. Are you planning on discussing
    or documenting the process and thinking behind this project? You can make a nice
    typeface, and it might arguably have some relationship to your city, but it''s
    not going to be more that superficially interesting without a thoughtful and illuminating
    presentation that explains the connection between your design and the city. '
  created: '2012-01-23 16:18:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Twin was never truly implemented\r\n\r\nI wonder how many of the European
    municipal fonts have been truly implemented? Any links or pointers? "
  created: '2012-01-23 16:34:16'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Jackson, thanks for your comment. There are two aspects of this campaign.
    The first is to raise the money from local Chattanooga citizens, who really don't
    know that much about typefaces. To them fonts are just stuff on a computer. We
    have to talk about this and make the case for a font first. I can't really go
    into that much depth about the development process, etc. in a marketing piece.\r\n\r\nAs
    I said in this message, a lot of thought went into the development of the letterforms
    and why we chose to design it in a certain way. In our research on the project,
    we even met with a local historian. When we first started this project I was very
    interested in Cherokee letterforms, which were invented by Sequoya just a few
    miles south of Chattanooga. I felt a American typeface, based on an American language
    that was invented here and is uniquely and will always be American was pretty
    interesting. We looked at industrial forms, vernacular forms, even the forms of
    the Walnut street bridge!\r\n\r\nWe got a lot of very interesting letter forms
    from that, but ultimately we decided that looking to the past, and Chattanooga
    has a very interesting past, is not the right approach. Those ideas remain in
    the font, but they are more subdued. Some of those ideas explicitly remain in
    the font, and will become different style sets that we have planed for the different
    subareas of the city. \r\n\r\nYou call this fluff in your tweet, but there were
    a number of approaches in the Twin City font that were just frankly ridiculous.
    For example, a program to choose a random font on your computer to represent the
    city for that day, based on some random weather information? That's fluff, not
    design. It's an interesting idea, but it's just an idea. It doesn't represent
    the city at all in visual form.\r\n\r\nI am very interested in documenting the
    process, and having these conversations about the design decisions we've made.
    But the kick starter campaign is not the place to make them. To characterize this
    project as just fluff is not accurate. A substantial amount of research and legwork
    by the team has gone into the development of this typeface. It is not just something
    that me and Robbie dusted off from our portfolios and decided to release as a
    Chattanooga font. To be honest, I think you owe the project an apology. You are
    free to disagree with the project as a whole or even the design, but to criticise
    it with no specific reason is not fair.\r\n\r\nRespectfully,\r\n\r\nJDooley"
  created: '2012-01-23 16:58:17'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "At your website you say \"Many European cities commission a custom typeface
    and use it to set themselves apart...signage in different regions seems to really
    pop...\" Can you give some examples of cities that have successfully implemented
    widespread use of a custom typeface for signage? (Other than Olympic cities, which
    I think would fall into a different category due to their special circumstances
    and funding.)\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-23 17:03:11'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "This is probably the best compendium of typeface identities for cities.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/80568\r\n\r\nI
    would characterize this as implemented: http://lviv-signage.livejournal.com/1071.html\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-23 17:04:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> thoughtful explorations of location and culture in relationship to letterforms.\r\n\r\nActually
    I think it was more fantasy than anything else.\r\nUnlike some designers I'm all
    for things like \"national\r\ncharacter\" in typestyles, but even I have to face
    the\r\nreality that no geographic place (at least not an urban\r\narea of this
    age) can have that much particular character.\r\nI once referred to this issue
    in a typeface review - see the\r\nfirst entry here:\r\nhttp://typographica.org/2005/on-typography/our-favorite-typefaces-of-2005/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-23 17:24:23'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>... to raise the money from local Chattanooga citizens, who really
    don't know that much about typefaces. To them fonts are just stuff on a computer
    ...</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>A substantial amount of research and legwork by the team
    has gone into the development of this typeface. It is not just something that
    me and Robbie dusted off from our portfolios and decided to release as a Chattanooga
    font. </cite>\r\n\r\nI absolutely agree with this, which is why I think you absolutely
    need to talk about the process and thinking that went into this project. Without
    that context, connecting it to the culture/history/people of the city, it just
    looks like a random font, particularly to people who don't know anything about
    typefaces. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>To be honest, I think you owe the project an apology.
    You are free to disagree with the project as a whole or even the design, but to
    criticize [sic] it with no specific reason is not fair.</cite>\r\n\r\nNormally
    I would agree, it's your project not mine. But, IMO, you opened the project up
    for discussion both by publicly trying to crowd-fund it and by promoting it in
    a \"General Discussions\" forum. Furthermore, I did give a specific reason (your
    failure to even passingly present a connection between the project goals and your
    proposed design). \r\n\r\nI'm glad to hear your claims that there is substance
    underneath the project, and I hope you decide to share it before your project
    funding ends. These kind of meaty cultural process projects (research->form) are
    few and far between in type design and have the potential to be a valuable contribution
    to the subject, particularly for your audience of people \"really don't know that
    much about typefaces\". \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-23 18:20:24'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "There's discussion, what we are engaging in now, and then there is just unwarranted
    epithets (fluff). Just because it's a kickstarter, don't tear it down. We started
    this project well before Kickstarted fonts became popular. In addition, we aren't
    selling it; we are restricting it to the metro area. It's exclusivity is a unique
    new aspect. If your objection is to Kickstarted fonts in general, I tend to agree.
    They ask to fund a commercial font, which seems silly to me, and frankly, people
    will get tired of that quickly.\r\n\r\nJDooley"
  created: '2012-01-23 19:47:08'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> This is probably the best compendium of typeface identities for cities...\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the links."
  created: '2012-01-23 19:58:49'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: I don't know anything about Chattanooga and most Chattanoogians don't know
    anything about type design. Until you make the connection between those them this
    project will remain thin on substance. I don't care how you're funding your project,
    I'm just expressing disappointment that your project hypes a fascinating topic
    (connecting a community to letter shapes) but fails to deliver (or promise as
    a deliverable) any real information.
  created: '2012-01-23 20:16:11'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: Type is a gateway drug. This will open eyes.
  created: '2012-01-23 20:31:42'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I haven't been on here in months thanks to starting a new job \u2014 in Chattanooga
    \u2014\_and I log on and this is what I see.  Crazy.\r\n\r\nWhile I do think Chattanooga
    is a city that has the type of people that could appreciate it (though perhaps
    I'd see Savannah as the first of the Southern cities to get a font), to be honest
    I just don't see Chattanooga in the proposed face.  The shapes are just too clean
    and rounded for a city that focuses so much on the outdoors which are\_its main
    tourism engine.  I would envision a font that combines that rugged attraction
    with the city's history \u2014\_antebellum/civil war/industry/trains.  The bridges
    are mentioned as influences, and while the Market St bridge does have a smoother
    arch, but I definitely find the Walnut St bridge to be more emblematic \u2014\_it's
    the walking bridge, with wood planks recalling railroad ties and used by the pedestrians
    that really set off Chattanooga from a lot of other Southern towns of its size
    (e.g. Birmingham)."
  created: '2012-01-24 02:17:42'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: Cool project! Good Luck!
  created: '2012-01-24 07:11:02'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Matthew,\r\n\r\nWe would love it if you could make it to our forum: http://www.facebook.com/events/204281256334156/\r\n\r\nWe
    welcome any comments and input on the face, and hopefully I can make the case
    as to why this is a good solution for Chattanooga."
  created: '2012-01-24 14:28:31'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "Kickstarter projects need to explain why they want our money - what they
    will use it for, and why their project is something they can't pay for themselves.\r\n\r\nIs
    the city commissioning this project, or a design studio? \r\n\r\nIt looks like
    you already have the typeface (at least partially) created. Why should we give
    you money when most of the labor has been completed already?"
  created: '2012-01-24 15:03:35'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: Wow, y'all are meeting not even two blocks from my apartment.  I'll definitely
    come poke my head in.
  created: '2012-01-24 15:30:46'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Trevor,\r\n\r\nThis is in the copy and video, but I will summarize:\r\n\r\nThe
    font is 20% done; not even close to finished. No kerning, incomplete spacing no
    style sets, no weights, etc. \r\n\r\nThe city is not commissioning it. It is a
    grassroots effort from independent designers that banded together. The project
    will be implemented by the community itself for city related projects. We already
    have commitments to use the face for large local projects. We have support from
    local politicians to potentially make it \"official\" once complete.\r\n\r\nJDooley"
  created: '2012-01-24 18:00:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'If you decide to include Cherokee support I''ll chip in $18.20, in honor
    of the (approximate) date the writing system was invented. '
  created: '2012-01-25 01:31:40'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: We strongly considered Cherokee support...but it was outside the scope of
    the project. Maybe in the future, if it is requested and funded.
  created: '2012-01-25 01:45:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So adding Armenian would cost $4.05?! That's a rip-off!\r\nEvery Armenian
    knows they're not supposed to pay for fonts...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-25 01:45:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">So adding Armenian would cost $4.05?! That's a rip-off!\r\n \r\nIt could
    be better. If they add <A HREF=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_B\">Linear
    B</A> they'd owe us $15 :-)"
  created: '2012-01-25 02:33:24'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Just a status update:\r\n\r\nThe project was front page news here in Chattanooga.
    [[http://timesfreepress.com/news/2012/feb/06/chattanooga-designers-work-capture-citys-soul-and-/|TFP]]
    and made kickstarter's front page project of the day.\r\n\r\nIn addition, Robbie
    and I talked a bit about the development and conceptual work for the project at
    our forum. We did a screen-cast of that presentation. It's up on the Chatype Kickstarter
    page."
  created: '2012-02-06 19:29:54'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "(I missed this for a while \u2013 sorry)\r\n\r\n1st, my respect for waging
    this. Exploring new ways is always dangerous. Those who venture in the eye of
    failure have my sympathy.\r\n\r\n2nd, I would still come back to the Cherokee
    aspect. This crazy script is undoubtedly the unique typographic asset of your
    place. In type, it\u2019s your Eiffel tower. Why not exploiting it? Did you ever
    explore to ruthlessly cherokeese the Latin alphabet and see what happens?\r\n\r\nMaybe
    the result will be more befitting to funny leasure resorts and tourism brochures
    than smart municipal presentations \u2026 and this is not what you\u2019re wanting.\r\n\r\nBut
    it could probably be very charming."
  created: '2012-02-14 11:14:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> cherokeese the Latin alphabet\r\n\r\nSince it's very difficult to make
    Cherokee harmonious\r\nwith Latin without offending the Elders*, this might in\r\nfact
    be a fruitful avenue.\r\n\r\n* As we learned at the TypeCon in New Orleans thanks
    to\r\nthe wonderful presentation by Joseph Erb and his team.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 18:06:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Has anyone thought of bring up the concept of \u201C<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disneyfication\">Disneyfication</a>\u201D
    in this context? In Halifax, Nova Scotia, the largest industry is tourism. As
    such, the majority of our waterfront has been transformed into a tacky tourist
    version of itself, where they force minimum wage employees in taverns and the
    like to dress up in period costumes, walk along the boardwalk, sing old-tyme sailor
    tunes &c, all veiled in the spirit of cultural preservation. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    an interesting discussion though. Imagine an endangered species. You can let it
    die, or put it in a cage and breed it. However, by caging it, even though you
    are keeping it alive, you are removing it\u2019s natural ability to adapt and
    thrive in a changing environment, ultimately working against your own end.\r\n\r\nThe
    closest real-world example I can think of is the passing of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charter_of_the_French_Language\">Bill
    101</a> in Qu\xE9bec city, 1997. It legally required you to have all of your signage
    with French as the predominant language ie; bigger and at the top. This was very
    controversial at the time.\r\n\r\nBut again, it raises the question, what is the
    best way to preserve, or in the case of Chattanooga and Chatype, promote, a culture
    in a natural and sustainable fashion?\r\n\r\nWill there be city-wide brand strategy?
    Signage restrictions? An identity-standards manual for all businesses? What if
    my business is from a different culture? Am I still required to use Chatype?\r\n\r\nFood
    for thought."
  created: '2012-02-18 00:57:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good stuff Christopher.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-18 02:23:22'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Chatype was fully funded today, plus $1.5k. We received (and continue to
    receive) plenty of national media attention focused on typography and city branding.
    We received coverage on TIME.com, NPR Marketplace, Radio Canada, Wolf Ollins,
    and Co.Design, among others. Graphic designers nationwide are asking themselves,
    \"What would our city's typeface look like?\" Chatype will be implemented in several
    very visible Chattanooga city projects.\r\n\r\nIn short, a complete Mission Accomplished."
  created: '2012-03-02 03:50:26'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Congratulations! and good luck with it.\r\n\r\nKeep us informed about how
    it proceeds."
  created: '2012-03-02 19:23:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good going! Stay focused.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-02 19:28:03'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: 'Just an update on the implementation from the Times Free Press: http://t.co/dzoj9w5n'
  created: '2012-04-30 17:20:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: The project was mentioned in latest issue of Seattle Metropolitan magazine,
    where Karen Cheng is quoted as saying Seattle needs it's own font. Hurrah! Unfortunately
    they also quote a bottle label designer who says he'd rather see safe bridges
    than a city font. Boooo000. ;-)
  created: '2012-04-30 22:43:42'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee. To the best of my knowledge, I spent
    nearly the first six weeks of my life there.\r\nA font just for the city of my
    birth?  Ok. Cool. I'll be keeping an eye.  Good luck.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nFont
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>"
  created: '2012-05-01 00:02:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@Richard: Just out of curiosity, why the new signature? All of the info contained
    in it is available from your Typophile profile. Is it an SEO thing for all your
    other locations?'
  created: '2012-05-01 05:40:10'
- author:
    name: JamesBurgman
  body: I have been once become a participant in helping and promoting a local culture.
    I am glad it is also happening  until this time. I believe not only people from
    my Country and from US are doing this.
  created: '2012-07-26 14:53:42'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: 'Chatype is available: Chatype.com'
  created: '2012-08-15 18:19:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Congratulations on the release and the nice presentation on the project at
    TypeCon.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2012-08-15 18:24:46'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: '''preciate it, Si.'
  created: '2012-08-15 18:57:27'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Well done, and thank you for making it freely available! Some  wonderful
    alternates and ligatures there, too. I especially like the Chattanooga Choo Choo
    glyph. \r\n\r\nAre you taking orders for NYC, Boston, Los Angeles, Paris, and
    Peoria?\r\n\r\nA copyright question: Why is there no internal copyright information
    or attribution in the fonts? All the copyright says is \"Generated in 2011 by
    FontLab Studio. Copyright info pending.\"\r\n\r\n - Herb\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-15 19:46:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good going Jeremy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-16 01:28:45'
date: '2012-01-22 03:51:58'
node_type: forum
title: 'Chatype: A Typeface for Chattanooga, Tennessee'

---
