---
author:
  name: jn22
body: "There is a particular typestyle I am interested in, mostly for body text, and
  all of the weights I like are called Display. The text versions are all heavier.\r\n\r\nAre
  these designations arbitrary or meant as a general guideline, or are there real
  things that prevent a display font from working for text, and vice versa?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Take one of the display faces you are thinking of using and set it as your
    email and web browser default (most browsers let you over-ride the fonts specified
    in web pages). If you are able to survive for a 72 hours before gouging out at
    least one of your eyes chances are the display face is suitable for text.
  created: '2012-01-27 18:08:34'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: I appreciate your method of deciding, even if there is a substantial risk
    of self injury. But what is life without some recklessness now and then. The problem
    is, I have to decide before buying the font. Mind you, I could try it with some
    comparable free display font, to give me some idea.
  created: '2012-01-27 18:18:49'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "'Display' versions are optimized for printing at larger sizes (often 72 pt
    but this varies), whereas 'text' versions are optimized for text sizes. You want
    heavier stems, sturdier serifs, less acute angles and wider letterforms at smaller
    sizes. If you haven't purchased these fonts yet, is it fair for me to surmise
    that you're basing your observations on samples you've been looking at on the
    vendor's website? If so, you're probably looking at the faces at larger sizes
    to begin with, or are looking at text-sized samples as rendered by your browser.
    Since WYSIWYG isn't really WYSIWYG, I'd recommend downloading a .pdf sample (if
    one is available) and printing it out.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2012-01-27 19:09:52'
- author:
    name: David Bergsland
    picture: 117179
  body: 'Also display faces tend to have tighter letterspacing whereas text needs
    to be a bit more open. But who knows what you actually get in any given font? '
  created: '2012-01-27 19:29:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Maybe if you show us the typeface, we can tell you why it\u2019s called \u201Cdisplay\u201D."
  created: '2012-01-27 23:33:59'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: It now appears that there are several typefaces I am considering that have
    so called display versions, and frankly, I cannot detect any difference. I wondered
    if there was a general difference between text and display fonts, and there is
    no sense in saddling generous responders with the task of reviewing multiple fonts
    for me. I think I will just go with my intuition, which tells me that if used
    with care, some display fonts can work for text. I remain grateful for the help
    from all typophile members who have been kind enough to respond my many questions.
  created: '2012-01-28 01:21:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Print out a paragraph of Bodoni 72 at 11/13 point, say a 25 pica line. The
    same with Times New Roman or Adobe Garamond. Are they equally easy to read? And
    I don''t mean look at the letters, I mean read.  '
  created: '2012-01-28 01:59:30'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: Thanks for the suggestion William, but my poor old MS Works does not have
    Bodoni to compare to Times New Roman, or the capacity to change the weight of
    the font beyond making things bold, but I have to admit that I might not be the
    best judge for this kind of test anyway. I have very good vision, to the point
    that I can comfortably read the compact edition of the Oxford English Dictionary
    (20 volume OED in one book, comes with magnifier!) at normal distance. At 11-13
    point, I would enjoy reading the display typestyles I am scouting out, but your
    suggestion has made me realize that I will also have to consider the  reading
    comfort for any target audience.
  created: '2012-01-28 03:09:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John N., doing this exercise or something like it is essential to understanding
    how type works, IMHO. I think you are confusing visual acuity and readability.
    They are different.  '
  created: '2012-01-28 03:14:05'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: "After thinking about it further, you are right. I was not considering readability,
    which is indeed something different than merely being able to distinguish what
    something says, particularly in brief. I will spend some time comparing various
    serif fonts that I do have, with extended reading, to see how readability varies.
    It's unfortunate that book publishers rarely if ever name the font used in books.
    It would be great to be able to just pull them off the shelf and see what's what.
    \r\n\r\nOn another front, I did observe the main differences between a text and
    display font, and it was as David indicated. I opened up two fonts.com windows
    side by side with sample text from the same font and size, one being display and
    the other being text. The characters themselves appeared identical, but the spacing
    between words is indeed smaller, and so is the spacing between lines. "
  created: '2012-01-28 04:56:57'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Your samples may appear the same on screen only. A typical Display font is
    tweaked to have slightly thinner verticals, because it's intended to be used at
    larger sizes (this definition of \"larger\" <em>is</em> left to the type designer).
    So it's possible your screen just doesn't show the subtle changes.\r\n\r\nDo the
    same exercise with a large point size and print it out on a high rez laser printer.\r\n\r\n(There
    are some \"Display\" fonts that are <em>not</em> simply tweaked variants for larger
    sizes. The Display style of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/51198\">Aller
    Sans</a>, for example, has quite a unique design of its own.)"
  created: '2012-01-28 05:41:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think I will just go with my intuition, which tells me that\r\n> if used
    with care, some display fonts can work for text.\r\n\r\nOnly the ones that are
    mislabeled as \"display\".  :-)\r\n\r\nMost any typographically savvy person will
    tell you that a font\r\nthat works well large cannot work well small, and vice
    versa.\r\nWhere you will find a divergence of views however is whether\r\nthere's
    some sort of qualitative threshold between \"text\" and\r\n\"display\", or it's
    just one continuous scale. I myself am of the\r\nformer mentality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-28 05:43:10'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: I made the comment before observing the significant difference in spacing,
    although I will take refuge in the idea that any display fonts that might work
    for text -according to my intuition- reside in that part of the continuum that
    makes up the qualitative threshold to which you refer  ;-)
  created: '2012-01-28 05:59:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>&gt; Most any typographically savvy person will tell you that a font\r\nthat
    works well large cannot work well small, and vice versa.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, I'd
    challenge the \xABvice versa\xBB. I've used text fonts for display to (I think)
    convincing effect. They may not look as \xABpretty\xBB as faces made expressly
    for display sizes; but pretty isn't always what's needed. I think at display sizes
    you're really quite free to do whatever works or looks right in a given context.
    \r\nBut yes, display fonts for text, indeed do not work. They need more size to
    show off their beauty. Not only are they not optimized for reading, they're not
    optimized for even being reproduced at the smaller sizes typical for text \u2013
    which may lead to undesired effects upon printing (such as looking too thin/fragile,
    for example)."
  created: '2012-01-28 08:24:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good point (although the looseness of text\r\ntypically does need to be \"fixed\"
    for display).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-28 15:32:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Yes, good point.
  created: '2012-01-28 16:33:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree with Nina about text fonts often working for display, but generally
    not visa versa. I would add that I think whether a text font works well in display
    is not a measure of how good it is as a text font. I don't think my Williams Caslon
    Text works well as a display font, though Boston Magazine occasionally used it
    at large size. The bold versions work ok, but not great, as display, in my opinion.
    Of course I think it works great at text size. \r\n\r\nTimes New Roman is to me
    an example of a great text type where you can just scale up to large sizes, and
    it still works. I think this is because of its sharp serifs and high contrast.
    The very oblique old style slant keeps the high contrast from hurting it too much
    as a text type, and the high contrast keeps working at large sizes. I've seen
    some say here that Times 10 is better for text, but I haven't done the comparison.
    \ "
  created: '2012-01-28 17:53:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Most any typographically savvy person will tell you that a font\r\n>that
    works well large cannot work well small, and vice versa.\r\n\r\nNonsense.\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 03:42:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Richard, what are some of your favorite text and display fonts?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 03:48:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A lot depends on scale.\r\nFor instance, a \u201Cdisplay\u201D font will
    work well at small size in a small document viewed closely\u2014the most stringent
    measurement of apparent size being arc of vision.\r\n\r\nBy a different token,
    \u201Cdisplay\u201D fonts will work better and smaller on coated stocks, rather
    than on uncoated stock or pixel screens.\r\n\r\nConversely, \u201Ctext\u201D fonts
    will work well at display size when fit is tightened, by decreasing tracking and
    adjusting kerning accordingly.\r\nAlso, such ostensibly \u201Ctext\u201D fonts
    are to be preferred for headlines in hard-to-read media, such as billboards and
    signage.\r\nAgain, their broad readability may be leveraged in deliberately low-contrast
    situations, such as color-on-colour, and surprinting the \u201Cnoise\u201D of
    patterns or images.\r\n\r\nContext is king, and the typographer the highest authority.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not to say that the distinction between Text and Display is arbitrary, merely
    provisional; and to these categorical poles must be added the interim designation
    of Deck."
  created: '2012-01-31 04:49:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the typographer [is] the highest authority\r\n\r\nA typographer hopefully
    has expertise. But a typographer can get it wrong, and radically wrong. The typographer
    can't dictate good reader experience, which is the ultimate goal and test. Expertise,
    yes, authority, no. "
  created: '2012-01-31 05:34:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Letterforms intended for text may very well look \u201Cugly\u201D and unbalanced
    at close inspection, but at text size \u2013 with ink spread and all the variables
    of the human eye \u2013 they take on a whole new appearence. In fact (and take
    this with a grain of salt \u2014 I\u2019m still learning), I suspect one of the
    true virtues of a great designer of text faces is the ability to look beyond the
    isolated beauty of an \u201Ca\u201D or a \u201Cg\u201D and rather perfect the
    word shape and rythm.\r\n\r\nDisplay type is a whole other beast."
  created: '2012-01-31 13:05:38'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: 'Serif typefaces seem to benefit more from display and text versions than
    sans typefaces do, probablythis has to do with the detailing and the amount of
    contrast. I have seen very few sans families that have text and display versions
    (if any). But it also depends on the kind of medium used; Posters with a photographic
    motif can make life hard for a fine display font, here a text cut might work better,
    as it will also be seen from a distance. Also printing conditions matter, as well
    as paper. '
  created: '2012-01-31 14:57:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sans faces are often done in many weights, and sometimes many widths as well.
    The different weights can be used for different sizes, with tracking. So they
    don't need to be labelled a much. \r\n\r\nSerif faces usually have much more modulation
    in stroke, as well has more horizontal elements, and bracketing. All these don't
    visually scale with linear changes in the outline, so more adjustment is needed.
    Could it be that these very features that don't scale as easily are the ones which
    help readability in text? Interesting question, I think.  "
  created: '2012-01-31 16:27:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also, sans-text is an oxymoron anyway.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 17:26:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: These days, whether we approve or not, sans get used in text.  Not so much
    in traditional book usage, but in brochures and technical materials.  The web
    has brought about a great deal more sans text as well.  Serifs are more difficult
    to render properly at screen resolution.  I see no reason why not to make a sans,
    that addresses that market, read as well for text as it can.  Contrast is by nature
    less of a problem than with roman faces but the width adjustment can still be
    an issue. When a foundry releases a face that fits the bill and markets it well,
    it gets used--even if they do not label it as "Text" or "Display."  I think most
    type buyers take a spin around the block and kick the tires before they settle
    on a what they might use it for.
  created: '2012-01-31 18:04:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As my dad is fond of saying:\r\nYou can call your daughter George but that
    won't make her a boy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 18:21:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: (Although I've heard that calling your son Sue will make him a man.)
  created: '2012-01-31 18:47:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Many jobs, both boys and girls can do ;-)
  created: '2012-01-31 18:48:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill:<em> Expertise, yes, authority, no.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course the typographer
    has the authority, or power, to determine how effective a font is\u2014you concur
    by saying that he/she can \u201Cget it wrong\u201D.\r\n\r\nBy being able to vary
    the parameters of how a font is set, the typographer assumes the primary authorship
    of reader experience.\r\n\r\nHowever, there are default and standard settings
    that provisionally remove some of that authority.\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 18:56:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> to determine how effective a font is\r\n\r\nNot \"determine\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 19:04:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why not?\r\nSure, tools have their own functionality, but the user determines
    have effective that is in practice.\r\nFor instance, both Richardson and Philips
    head screwdrivers have functionality, but how effective they will be on any given
    screw head depends on the user\u2019s determination of what is appropriate. And
    those too come in size-specific variants. "
  created: '2012-01-31 19:19:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It should go without saying that somebody choosing a font\r\ndoes not determine
    how well it works, no matter his expertise.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 19:40:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you hand a scalpel to me and the same tool to a brain surgeon, does not
    our ability determine how well we use it?\r\n\r\nMy hope is that you never ask
    me to perform an operation ;-)"
  created: '2012-01-31 20:01:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Skill determines how well it's used, but not how suited it is to the task.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-31 20:10:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant: <cite>\"It should go without saying that somebody choosing a font\r\ndoes
    not determine how well it works, no matter his expertise.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI might
    agree with this if it was worded thus:\r\n<em>\"It should go without saying that
    somebody choosing a font\r\ndoes not determine how well it <strong>can work</strong>,
    no matter his expertise.\"</em>\r\n\r\nMeaning: The <em>upper</em> limit of functionality*
    is fixed, by the quality inherent in the font. Even in the hands of the best typographer,
    a font that's bad for text won't work better than it inherently <em>is</em>. (Even
    this might be debatable in some instances, but it pretty much makes sense, to
    me.)\r\nConversely, of course it's obvious that anything can be made to work <em>worse</em>
    than it inherently/potentially <em>could</em>. I could ruin any functionality
    of any typeface you hand me by setting it with negative leading, tiny, in dark
    grey on black, &c.\r\n\r\n(* meaning the functionality of the whole <em>setting,</em>
    being the end result that the reader sees.\r\n(Sorry, I'll stop editing now.))"
  created: '2012-01-31 20:15:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'When I said expertise yes, authority, no, I meant that the typographer does
    not dictate user experience. That is constrained and influenced not only by what
    the typographic designer does but also by physiological, psychological, and cultural
    factors in the individual reader. So the typographer can help or screw up, and
    is not automatically right, no matter who they are. Also their power to determine
    how the text looks is often constrained by editors, art directors, etc. '
  created: '2012-01-31 21:53:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Richard, what are some of your favorite text and display fonts?\r\n\r\nYou
    wouldn't know their names.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-02 23:12:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have books. And Google. Shoot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-02 23:18:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Here's how I <em>really</em> know that what you wrote is nonsense:\r\n\r\nEvery
    month I'm given a group of fonts for the upcoming issue of <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest
    Konstellations</a>.\r\nI am given them \"blind\". I do not know how or at what
    sizes designer Garrick Van Buren is going to use the fonts.\r\nI just get fonts,
    that's it.\r\n\r\nNearly every month, I am completely surprised that at least
    one font that I would swear up and down is CERTAINLY going to be used for body
    text gets used as a display font and it looks great.\r\n(And Garrick's university
    degree is in <em>graphic</em> design. He knows all about categories of fonts and
    historical usage and all that.)\r\n\r\nBesides, without any idea of the context
    - the kind of design, the kind of media, the design's purpose, the target audience
    - how can anybody make the statement that a font MUST be either one thing or the
    other?\r\n\r\nI give you names of fonts to decide this?  Hey, cut it out.\r\n\r\nHow
    about this: you have better taste than I do. Everybody on typophile has better
    taste than me. OK? So what looks more right to your sensibilities is therefore
    correct.\r\nThat settles it, I would imagine."
  created: '2012-02-03 00:19:15'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: "To my observation, the issue of a display font not working for text has nothing
    to do with the font per se. The problem with display fonts for use in text appears
    to be in spacing. The display fonts I looked at simply did not provide enough
    space between words and lines to be legible. \r\n\r\nAs one who is still very
    new to typestyles, what is most peculiar to me is the lack of control offered
    to the user in typical word processors with regard to line and word spacing. This
    is as important as the characters themselves. Another peculiarity is how few typestyles
    are distinguished as being designed for text or display."
  created: '2012-02-03 01:01:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "So Richard, John N., you guys think that Curlz is just as good as Times New
    Roman for say 10/12 pt text printed at a measure of 27? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-03 01:02:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I give you names of fonts to decide this?\r\n\r\nNo, you give me names
    of fonts so I can prove you're wrong.\r\nAnd this has nothing to do with taste.
    If I'm a snob, it's firmly\r\nwithin the subvisible realm of functionality.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    two things to consider:\r\n- The spacing between letters is inexorably interwoven
    with\r\nthe spacing within letters; you can't just make things tighter\r\nor looser.
    It might help, but it's not the real deal.\r\n- Spacing variance is indeed huge
    in terms of optimal usage size,\r\nbut there are other things, such as contrast,
    apertures, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-03 01:09:41'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: "That makes sense hrant, but I might still surmise that spacing is the most
    significant factor that governs whether a display font can be used for text, at
    least within a given typestyle. The issue was most glaring when I looked at New
    Haas Grotesk. It is available in 15, 25, 35, and 45 weight in display only, and
    is very similar to Neue Helvetica 25, 35, 45, except the spacing is obviously
    too tight for text. Neue Helvetica in the lighter weights does work for text.
    Did I merely stumble upon an anomaly among typestyles that happen to have display
    <em>and</em> text fonts? And is it safe to assume that if a given font does not
    have the word display or titling in its name that it is indeed a text font?\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    I have only examined display fonts for possible text use, and not the other way
    around. Regardless, curlz does not quite work as an example, as it is clearly
    unsuitable for text. "
  created: '2012-02-03 03:24:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John N., you said \"issue of a display font not working for text has nothing
    to do with the font per se.\"\r\n\r\nNow you say \"curlz does not quite work as
    an example, as it is clearly unsuitable for text.\"\r\n\r\nSo you have now changed
    your mind, and are saying that indeed a display font, Curlz, is unsuitable for
    text because of the way this font is designed. Right?"
  created: '2012-02-03 03:36:40'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: "Good eye on the apparent incongruence between those two statements. Sometimes
    we make statements based on assumptions, particularly when we are new to a given
    field. It seems obvious to me that certain fonts are display by virtue of their
    ornate design, like Curlz, and yet others present ambiguity precisely because
    they appear conventional, and I was under the impression that the distinction
    was self evident. In addition, I have to trust the reader knows or can figure
    out what I mean when I use the descriptor conventional. \r\n\r\nI am not changing
    my mind, I am merely trusting the reader to make the more obvious distinctions
    that I cannot be expected to explain with perfect precision.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-03 03:54:38'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: After rereading your last sentence, in one way, I changed my mind.
  created: '2012-02-03 04:25:46'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "John \u2014\r\n\r\nI suggest you use the term \"typeface\" or simply \"face\"
    to talk about individual designs. What a \"typestyle\" might mean is ambiguous.\r\n\r\nE.g.,
    \"Curlz is my favorite typeface (or face)!\" \"The Curlz family (or type family)
    is highly extensive, comprising one font.\"\r\n\r\nInterestingly, the term to
    refer to styles of calligraphy is \"hand.\" I've always thought it's suggestive
    that type comes in \"faces\" but calligraphy comes in \"hands.\"\r\n\r\nTraditionally,
    the \"three Fs\" worked like this:\r\n\r\nA type <strong>family</strong> (e.g.,
    Times) comprised all the versions of that design, and would have been stored in
    several cabinets in a letterpress shop.\r\nA type <strong>face</strong> (e.g.,
    Times italic) was one version of that design, and would have been stored in a
    single cabinet.\r\nA type <strong>font</strong> (e.g., 10pt Times italic) was
    one size of one face, and lived in a single case (drawer) in the type cabinet.\r\n\r\nNowadays,
    the terms can kind of mean anything, with \"font\" doing duty for all of them.
    But \"typeface\" is usually the way to refer to a specific design.\r\n\r\nSorry
    to slightly hijack the thread \u2014 I thought you had another thread on terms
    going, but it seems to have gone away. And now back to your scheduled programming."
  created: '2012-02-03 19:24:44'
- author:
    name: jn22
  body: O.K. Thanks.
  created: '2012-02-03 19:53:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I like the erudite intellectuals who misuse the term in ways that are quite
    hopeless:\r\nDaniel Kahneman in <em>Thinking, Fast and Slow</em>. \u201C\u202690%
    of the students who saw the CRT in normal font\u2026\u201D\r\nCute, but what was
    his editor thinking?"
  created: '2012-02-03 22:10:24'
date: '2012-01-27 18:00:09'
node_type: forum
title: Display fonts vs text fonts- Arbitrary designations?

---
