---
author:
  name: bburwell
body: "I have some technical text with tons of abbreviations and initialisms. I'm
  trying to make them look nice, but I'm having some difficulty.\r\n\r\nThere are
  references to \"Allentown EMS,\" which, when EMS is set in small caps, seems inconsistent
  because Allentown is capitalized. The general rule I came up with to deal with this
  is to only put non-proper nouns in small caps.  So things like Allentown EMS are
  capitalized but where EMS appears by itself, it is in small caps.  If Allentown
  EMS is referred to as \"AEMS,\" that too is in full-height caps because it abbreviates
  a proper noun.\r\n\r\nAlso, I'm having a PhD-like problem. The text is peppered
  with kHz and MHz. I'm thinking of using the solution proposed <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/33815#comment-202926\">here</a>.\r\n\r\n
  Does this sound reasonable to people?"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I would go small-caps whenever possible, proper nouns or not. Some caps/small-caps
    clashes will always be inevitable.
  created: '2012-02-09 13:42:23'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Pick a face with better small caps. They are obviously too low.
  created: '2012-02-09 14:04:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even better: a face with multiple sizes\r\nof smallcaps, such as Atma or
    Ernestine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 19:47:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\xAB\"Allentown EMS,\" which, when EMS is set in small caps, seems
    inconsistent because Allentown is capitalized\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's hard to say
    without seeing this in your actual setting, but I don't think things like this
    <em>need</em> to look \xABconsistent\xBB (because otherwise, the only sensible
    solution would be to just use the full caps for acronyms). I suspect you may be
    having a hangup that you don't need to have."
  created: '2012-02-09 20:58:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: If you're going to hang it on a museum wall, do what typophiles like. If you're
    expecting a technical audience, do what they're familiar with -- unless a major
    part of the work is to teach an audience what typographers like...
  created: '2012-02-10 15:05:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> do what they're familiar with\r\n\r\nBut never ignore what people are \"familiar\"
    with\r\nin their unconscious, often without even realizing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-10 16:44:41'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Charles_e, yes I agree with your point. Standards, even if they're just de
    facto standards, are there for a reason.\r\n\r\nHrant, you may have jumped the
    shark here. Your post may haunt you.\r\n\r\nIn tech writing, capital letters are
    all over the place in the middle of sentences: spec acronyms, company names, company
    acronyms, people names, descriptive letters after names, units of measure, etc.
    \ And how do we  keep the reader from wanting to stop at the capital letters?
    Answer: we use a typeface that has small capital letters. This is the simple,
    clear solution.\r\nGreta Text: http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/greta_text/\r\nGentium:
    http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=Gentium\r\nOf
    course there are many others. \r\n\r\nThe complicated solution is not necessarily
    the best one."
  created: '2012-02-10 17:41:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You haven't really been following my online activity have you.\r\nHaunt?
    The ghosts fully settled in my living room years ago.\r\nWe're OK now. Sometimes
    they make me shark soup.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIt's not about simplification; the human
    brain cannot be\r\ndescribed as simple. It's about accepting the difference\r\nbetween
    what people think they're looking at versus what\r\ntheir brain is actually look
    at*, and not simply settling\r\nfor the way things have been done so far. Now,
    Ben might\r\nlike to play it safe in this case, but ignoring how the brain\r\nworks
    is never safe.\r\n\r\n* For example it's been empirically proven\r\nthat people
    think sizes above 12 are easier\r\nto read while in fact there's such a thing\r\nas
    text that's too large.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-10 17:55:09'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Allentown_3420.png]\r\nNo comment."
  created: '2012-02-10 18:08:08'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: It may be better to leave kHz and MHz in uc/lc, no matter how much it Hz.
    AFAIK, that's both the canonical way and the standardised way.
  created: '2012-02-10 18:54:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hrant, it is about communication. A piece can be poorly written, or poorly
    presented (or both). It is not about eventual comprehension. I belong to another
    forum where some people have abandoned capitalization, punctuation and spelling.
    Too much texting, I suppose. I can usually figure out what they're saying, but
    my tendency is to put them on my \"ignore\" list so I don't see their posts. \r\n\r\nJ.
    Tillman and Michael Boyer raise an interesting point. A font with a large x-height,
    and esp. one where full cps aren't as tall as the lower-case ascenders,  minimizes
    the difference between lower case and full cap letters (and full & small caps).
    The only question is how well such fonts work with subscripts and superscripts.
    My initial guess is they can work just fine, but you'd have to do a bit of testing
    to be sure."
  created: '2012-02-11 08:20:40'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is a grab from the <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?item_id=Gentium_samples\"><strong>Gentium
    Specimen</strong></a> booklet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gent_4113.png]\r\n\r\nIt
    does not seem to be the x-height that is most relevant here, but the cap-height
    that is much smaller than the l-heigh. Digits are also smaller."
  created: '2012-02-11 12:52:33'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: If you want smallish caps, <a href="http://www.linotype.com/521506/malabar-family.html">Malabar</a>
    might just be perfect.
  created: '2012-02-11 14:36:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It is not about eventual comprehension.\r\n\r\nYou actually wrote that.
    Wow.\r\n\r\n> A font with a large x-height, and esp. one where full cps\r\n> aren't
    as tall as the lower-case ascenders, minimizes the\r\n> difference between lower
    case and full cap letters\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but: Duh.\r\nAlso: As Michael indicates,
    Gentium's x-height isn't at all large.\r\n\r\nWhat are we arguing about here?\r\nI'm
    saying that some conventions of technical typesetting are junk*,\r\nand the careful
    addressing of how smallcaps should be working seems\r\nto be overdue. It has probably
    never been done; people were probably\r\noblivious to typographic refinement (not
    the same thing as typographic\r\nsnobbery) and simply used TNR and whatever other
    junk was just\r\nsitting there. Ben is trying to improve his/the situation, and
    he's doing\r\nit in the best place possible - so let's be a bit lucid here.\r\n\r\n*
    Just as some conventions of type design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-11 14:58:26'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Hrant, this is not a reply to any of your posts here, but I am going to quote
    you to define what I'm talking about.\r\n\r\n\"What are we arguing about here?\"
    Always a good question. The problem we're discussing is the one defined in the
    original poster's first sentence. \"I have some technical text with tons of abbreviations
    and initialisms.\" In the link in that same first post Florian Hardwig said: \"Recently
    it was my task to \u2018calm down\u2019 a text churned up by all-caps names, acronyms
    & abbreviations.\" \r\n\r\nThe reader's eye wants to stop when it gets to all
    these capital letters in the middle of the sentence. That's the problem. And in
    the internet age, we have all become technical writers and technical readers.\r\n\r\n\"and
    the careful addressing of how smallcaps should be working seems to be overdue.\"
    Indeed. After reading numerous posts on small caps in technical writing, I conclude
    that the \"rules\" are very complicated. (If you are interested, check out  http://www.typophile.com/node/84025
    where a bewildering number of options are offered, in the pdf, to be considered.)
    It seems that for ALL instances of capital letters in the middle of a sentence,
    the writer (or typesetter) should evaluate each one individually and make a decision:\r\n-leave
    it as regular capital letters\r\n-use small caps\r\n-use small caps and lower
    case,as in the link in the original post\r\n-use the bigger size small caps\r\n-use
    the bigger size small caps and lower case\r\n-try a number of typefaces and reevaluate
    all the options over and over\r\nAnd if the typesetter goes through the book,
    thesis, or paper and makes a thoughtful decision for every instance of capital
    letters, is that a success? Do we need the 147 rules of small caps explained in
    the supplementary book to the Chicago Manual of Style? Or does the reader want
    a simple standard, that can easily be applied across multiple books in the universe,
    for easy-to-read technical material?\r\n\r\nLet's be kind to the reader. Let's
    be kind to the tech writers. Keep it simple and understandable. For technical
    writing, just use a typeface that has smaller-than-usual capital letters. Michel
    Boyer kindly demonstrated how effective it is. Forget about any small caps. (This
    is heresy in this forum, of course.) There are lots of fonts that meet this requirement,
    in addition to the ones Nina and I have suggested. Just do it."
  created: '2012-02-11 17:57:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm actually a big fan of smallish (main) capital letters.\r\nAnd I don't
    pretend everybody needs smallcaps all the time;\r\nfor one thing I don't believe
    smallcaps should come included\r\nin (most) base fonts: most people will never
    use them, but\r\nthey're paying for them anyway. I'd rather charge extra for\r\nthem
    to people who know what they're doing.\r\n\r\nThere are however two important
    points you might be missing:\r\n- Sometimes caps actually need help standing out.
    <em>Especially</em>\r\nin technical writing. This is because -unlike in something
    like a\r\nnovel- the reader often needs to [go back and] <em>scan</em> the text\r\nfor
    important words, and these words are quite often proper\r\nnouns (ie capitalized).\r\n-
    Immersive reading is not about the reader making choices,\r\nit's about the designer
    accomodating the human reading\r\nmechanism that readers don't know about, and
    don't need to\r\nknow about. Readers are not \"confused\" by caps of different\r\nsizes
    - they just read. But when caps are the wrong size (they <em>do</em>\r\nneed to
    vary depending on the contexts of density and meaning)\r\n<em>then</em> they snap
    out of it, and pay for our avoidance of complexity.\r\n\r\nSo: You certainly don't
    encumber the reader's consciousness\r\nwith rules; but you do try to follow the
    quite complex \"rules\"\r\nof how humans actually read (without them even realizing
    it).\r\nCompare this to cars: engines are very complex, because they\r\nneed to
    be; but simplifying the usability for the driver is of\r\ncritical importance.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-11 18:21:13'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Hrant, regarding your two points...\r\n\r\nIf you want to capitalize a word,
    just do it. With a font that has smaller-than-usual capital letters it's not intrusive.
    You don't need small caps.\r\n\r\nThe reader wants to see small caps (or capital
    letters) used uniformly across different books. If the reader is looking at several
    different Python books, and small caps are used differently in each, it will be
    aggravating. You using small caps predictably in your book is not sufficient.
    Thus if the rules for small cap use are not clear, or if they are being made up
    on the spot by this forum or the writer, there is a problem. (\"and the careful
    addressing of how smallcaps should be working seems to be overdue.\") And this
    is the case. Technical writers will be clearer (and less aggravating) to the reader
    by NOT making up their own rules, but just by using an appropriate typeface. "
  created: '2012-02-11 18:59:57'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: Hrant, nuts, I mis-read point number 1. I thought you meant the reader would
    scan for words in all-caps or small caps. But you meant the reader would scan
    for a word starting with a capital letter, a proper noun. You may have a point.
    I'll have to pay more attention to how I scan. But I think I look for a particular
    word more than a capitalized word.
  created: '2012-02-11 19:44:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The reader wants to see small caps (or capital\r\n> letters) used uniformly
    across different books.\r\n\r\n1) I don't believe a reader can, should or wants
    to\r\ncare to this extent. And this is exactly why [text]\r\ntypography is an
    under-the-radar sort of endeavor.\r\n\r\n2) By that logic we should limit ourselves
    in all\r\nkinds of ways. Like only using Times. No way Jos\xE9.\r\n\r\n> I think
    I look for a particular word more than a capitalized word.\r\n\r\nIt does depend
    on the type of work.\r\nBut most scanning <em>is</em> for proper nouns.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-11 23:12:35'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Another problem is that we often perceive things differently than they actually
    are, and good fonts make the appropriate adjustments.  Here is a small example
    (with Gentium, but it works the same with other fonts I have tried).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATM_4167.png]\r\nI
    must confess that for me the \"A\" in \"All\" looks smaller than the \"A\" in
    \"ATM\" though both are identical. "
  created: '2012-02-11 23:17:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "1. <cite> \"It is not about eventual comprehension.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>You
    actually wrote that. Wow.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is a little dense. Sorry. I write more
    academic stuff than tweets. (Actually, I don't have a twitter account.) How about
    \"Just because a reader can eventually figure it out doesn't make it O.K.\"\r\n\r\n2.
    You're going to have to give me your list showing what's typographic snobbery
    & what's not. Apparently I see a lot more snobbery than you do.\r\n\r\n3. An by
    the way, IMHO, Times Roman was a pretty good font until the modern generation
    of font fiddlers mucked it up."
  created: '2012-02-12 14:13:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Just because a reader can eventually figure it out doesn't make it O.K.\r\n\r\nI
    can buy this.\r\n\r\nSnobbery:\r\nIn the microcosm of type design, the only thing
    I've seen that can\r\nbe construed as snobbery is something I can actually be
    accused of:\r\nseeing text fonts as superior to display fonts; I get flack for
    that\r\nsometimes, but I stand by it. Besides that the only mildly offensive\r\nthing
    I've seen is better characterized as one-upmanship: \"My font\r\nhas 137 more
    contextual alts than yours!\" This is a problem Matthew\r\nCarter once referred
    to: people are putting so many bells and whistles\r\ninto their fonts they don't
    spend the time thinking about the basics.\r\nThis might also be why people like
    Thomas Huot-Marchand are\r\ncomplaining* that there's little real innovation in
    type these days.\r\nWe'll fix that this year...  :-)\r\n\r\n* See Ruxandra Duru's
    recent paper:\r\nhttp://www.eina.edu/arxius/docs_2/Duru_Ruxandra.pdf\r\n\r\nWhat
    snobbery do you see, specifically?\r\nI'd like to help you fight it.\r\n\r\n>
    Times Roman was a pretty good font\r\n\r\nMetal Times with ink gain was/is indeed
    great. But my main\r\npoint above is that anybody who thinks it's a good idea
    to\r\nuse Times for everything (even within a given field) really\r\ndoes not
    get visual communication. And by the same token we\r\nneed to not feel so constrained
    by what readers supposedly\r\nmind so much that they can't handle any deviation
    from.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-12 16:20:24'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "This is a further question about the use of a font with smaller-than-usual
    capital letters. Hrant said:\r\n    Sometimes caps actually need help standing
    out. Especially\r\n    in technical writing. This is because -unlike in something
    like a\r\n    novel- the reader often needs to [go back and] scan the text\r\n
    \   for important words, and these words are quite often proper\r\n    nouns (ie
    capitalized).\r\n    \r\nAnd this raises the speculative question: How much would
    a typeface like Gentium interfere with scanning for proper nouns. There are two
    extreme views. 1. If the capital letters are smaller they're a lot harder to see,
    so of course there will be a heavy scanning hit. 2. Well, the initial capital
    letters may be smaller but they're still capital letters, which look different
    than lowercase letters, and they're higher than the lower case x-height; the reader
    knows what the letters look like and will still find them.\r\n\r\nWould any speculators
    offer a gut reaction (brain reaction) as to which way you are leaning?"
  created: '2012-02-12 16:47:27'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: The question that was raided was about technical texts. When a student gives
    me a thesis to read, I ask for the pdf, preferably with hyperlinks for equations
    and references. I don't scan the paper, I search the pdf. More and more journals
    and even books are available in pdf format. So, for that market, I would not worry
    too much about proper names that are hard to find in a paper version.
  created: '2012-02-12 19:49:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good point about the rise of Control-F.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-12 19:49:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Snobbery:\r\nIn the microcosm of type design, the only thing I've seen
    that can\r\nbe construed as snobbery is something I can actually be accused of:\r\nseeing
    text fonts as superior to display fonts; I get flack for that\r\nsometimes, but
    I stand by it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree with you. Does that make me a snob?\r\n\r\nWhat
    I'm really after is the notion that design should play an instructional role in
    someone else's writing. Example: Rich Hendel had a student explain to him that
    he'd chosen a sans at a small setting size for a work on Shakespeare \"to challenge
    the reader.\"\r\n\r\nI dunno what Rich said to him; my reaction was \"if you want
    to challenge the reader, write your own damn piece. It's not your role to interject
    that challenge to an author's work.\"\r\n\r\nThe specifics of the goblet may change
    over time, but Warde got it about right."
  created: '2012-02-18 03:44:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>We'll fix that this year... :-)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNext year
    for sure, sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 01:33:03'
date: '2012-02-08 20:47:05'
title: Small caps in technical writing

---
