---
author:
  name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
  picture: 112329
body: "I hope I didn\u2019t miss that this has been discussed here before.\r\n\r\nThere
  is an initiative to create a local typeface for Chattanooga, TN. Perhaps more interesting
  than the mere fact is the way they try to gain funds for it (-> \r\n[[http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/chatype/chatype-a-typeface-for-chattanooga-tennessee?ref=category|
  see on Kickstarter]])\r\n\r\nI think it is worth getting backed by more people.
  And I think, if they succeed, this will be a nice showcase for the type industry
  as a whole.\r\nThe general market for fonts is over-saturated. There is more potential
  in customfonting, perhaps."
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: http://typophile.com/node/89329
  created: '2012-02-14 10:21:55'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "When I saw the title, I hoped for a general discussion on the topic. It\u2019s
    obviously needed, with so much hostility against these kind of projects. "
  created: '2012-02-14 10:25:30'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: Gimmicky fund raising that trumps the actual concept/process/result/thinking
    of the design is not a good showcase for the "type industry". Good typefaces that
    are both thoughtfully produced and successfully explained to the public would
    be much better at helping people understand what good type is all about (which
    is also the solution for a market over saturated with mediocre and pointless options).
  created: '2012-02-14 11:40:23'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "The \"Valuco\" Kickstarter project really rubbed me the wrong way, as did
    Google Webfonts' constant endorsement of the platform to fund their rubbish fonts.\r\n\r\nJust
    build the font. Don't ask us for money upfront, and then also charge for the font.
    If people like it, they will buy it. End of."
  created: '2012-02-14 15:35:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Agree with Trevor. And <em>certainly</em> don\u2019t advertise them as \u201C*free.\u201D\r\n\r\n*As
    long as you give me money now so I can give it to you for \u201Cfree\u201D later."
  created: '2012-02-14 15:56:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[[http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/2094022925/gremolata-and-cancellaresca-milanese|Here''s]]
    a type-design kickstarter of a different flavor: a new foundry type. '
  created: '2012-02-14 16:01:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Just build the font. Don't ask us for money upfront.\"\r\n\r\nWhy take
    the risky financial route when there's an alternative?\r\n\r\n\"and then also
    charge for the font\"\r\n\r\nThat's what Kickstarter is. "
  created: '2012-02-14 17:58:11'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "I was referring to multiple Kickstarter projects that asked for donations
    to cover the overhead/upfront costs of creating a font, and then charged for the
    font after it was complete.\r\n\r\nEither ask users to cover the overhead and
    release it for free, or do the labor yourself and charge for the font upon release.
    Trying to charge twice for the same product is shady and unfair."
  created: '2012-02-14 18:02:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Couldn\u2019t we call Kickstarter shady in and of itself? I don\u2019t know
    the rules, but what if someone wants to raise $100 to release something for \u201Cfree\u201D
    and they only get $50, so they never release it. Do they simply pocket the $50?"
  created: '2012-02-14 20:40:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The [[http://www.kickstarter.com/help/faq/kickstarter%20basics#AlloFund|rules]]
    are right on the site. \r\n<blockquote>Every Kickstarter project must be fully
    funded before its time expires or no money changes hands.</blockquote>\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 21:00:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "All things being equal, personally I can't see\r\nanything wrong with using
    a Kickstarter approach.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-14 21:03:39'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Trying to charge twice for the same product is shady and unfair.</cite>\r\n\r\nManaging
    to charge twice for the same product is utterly clever, from a merchand\u2019s
    point of view ;-)\r\n\r\nWe should not turn to unduely moralize about it. Frankly,
    at the end of the day it\u2019s about marketing our work. To possibly develop
    new channels of gaining profit. What\u2019s wrong with that?\r\n\r\nHaving said
    this, I still feel kickstarting a font project may be an intersting option to
    go for. Why? Well, the fontist sits in his/her laboratorium breeding upon a new
    groundbreaking font idea. He estimates the amount of labour neccessary to get
    it done, to get it shipped to the market. He (she) estimates the time it will
    take, the costs of that time ... you understand. \u201CWill the market pay back?\u201D\r\nBut
    now he turns to ask the public *in advance* what they make of the concept. Is
    it any good? Is it worthwhile, promising? Is it wanted? Would anyone give a penny
    for its success? Worthy questions, i.m.o. Maybe Kickstarter functions similar
    to a stock exchange: people deal with estimations and expectations. \u2013 I\u2019m
    just curious.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s fairly new and fragile. Let\u2019s monitor it with
    care.\r\n\r\nRecently I thought about announcing a typeface which would get licenced
    only to a fixed number of licencees. A kind of limitation, similar to local limitation
    (\u201CChattanooga\u201D), which may or may not add value to the product by the
    implementation of shortage. Which means: exclusivity."
  created: '2012-02-14 21:03:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I\u2019ve mentioned before, Kickstarter is a good way for foundries/type
    designers to form a relationship with their customers, and even accomodates feedback
    into the design process."
  created: '2012-02-14 21:04:29'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: I love Kickstarter as a service. I think it's one of the best uses of the
    web in its short history. I just think some projects are using it in (most likely
    unknowingly) questionable ways.
  created: '2012-02-15 15:59:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Trying to charge twice for the same product is shady and unfair.\"\r\n\r\nNo
    it's not. No one is getting charged twice. "
  created: '2012-02-15 16:16:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Spending a few quids on an unoriginal, poor quality free font is ok. I just
    wish they had a layer of (constructive) professional critique prior to presenting
    the projects. Think business mentoring. '
  created: '2012-02-15 21:00:40'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 a layer of (constructive) professional critique prior to presenting
    the projects</cite>\r\n\r\nI can\u2019t imagine how you would manage this. \u201CPlease
    give advice for my design\u201D and \u201Cplease donate for its production\u201D
    at once??"
  created: '2012-02-15 22:40:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Andreas: I think it\u2019s probably out of the scope of Kickstarter, but
    projects could be reviewed by someone with professional experience in the field
    on submission. The cost could be covered by a submission fee. \r\nPerhaps a better
    approach for the type community is more serious critique of these kind of public
    projects. When Roboto came out Typographica published a piece on its design and
    M. Butterick wrote a piece on the Google Web Fonts a while back \u2014 both examples
    of the kind of critique we need. "
  created: '2012-02-15 22:58:37'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: We have music critics, but mostly just type praisers.
  created: '2012-02-15 23:03:16'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Kickstarter is meant to fund things that couldn't happen without an outlay
    of expenses. Here we're often seeing it used to promote a font that appears to
    be basically done and ransom its release. There is no investment in printing costs
    or camera rentals or anything of that nature (assuming you already have the software
    you're using), so it comes down to convincing people that there is still $X worth
    of work to be done and that you'll do it.
  created: '2012-02-15 23:10:21'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "@Cerulean You nailed it. That was exactly my point.\r\n\r\nMost type design
    projects I've seen are charging for labor that's already 90% done, and basically
    using Kickstarter as more of a PR play than an actual means of fundraising."
  created: '2012-02-16 15:02:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"We have music critics\"\r\n\r\nAnd has that really change the quality of
    any particular music? No. \r\n\r\n\"Kickstarter is meant to fund things that couldn't
    happen without an outlay of expenses. \"\r\n\r\nIt's not really meant for any
    specific model. It's basically \"do you like this enough to be willing to pay
    in advance?\" or, as stated, PR. Or whatever people can morph it into.\r\n\r\nThere's
    some stuff I find silly that people are willing to pay for up front, but who am
    I to judge? If it establishes a new product, more power to them. "
  created: '2012-02-16 15:26:03'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'alu: I think yes. It definitely has.'
  created: '2012-02-16 15:46:50'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>We have music critics, but mostly just type praisers.</cite>\r\n\r\nPut
    this way, it seems a bit of a stretch to me.\r\nAnyway, music critics do their
    thing only \"after the fact\", they don't go into recording studios giving advice."
  created: '2012-02-16 15:58:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Darrel, are you implying that Typophile critiques don't help the designs?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-16 15:59:36'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>We have music critics, but mostly just type praisers.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    is certainly something to think about it. Why is it as you describe?\r\n\r\nWho
    would be the addressee of substantial typeface critique? If any??\r\n\r\nI remember
    the late Max Caflish wrote thorough type reviews in the Swiss magazine Typographische
    Monatsbl\xE4tter \u2013 gone by. \r\nWhat would be the proper forum today for
    such editorial work? Who would read it?\r\n\r\nI sometimes feel that much of font
    publicity generated today is just received by fellow fontmen, hence competitors.
    Therefore the mass of it turns out to be just praise, to drown your neighbour.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-16 21:17:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Darrel, are you implying that Typophile critiques don't help the designs?\"\r\n\r\nOh,
    not at all! I'm saying that industry critics do not, alone, make the industry
    produce better product. It may help particular artists, for sure. "
  created: '2012-02-16 23:48:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the late Max Caflish wrote thorough type reviews\r\n\r\nToo late. Reviews
    are best before release.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-17 01:04:07'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "I toyed with the idea of getting a kickstarter going for my typeface. It
    went as far as getting everything approved by Kickstarter \u2013 I just never
    launched it. \r\n\r\nMy intention was to help fund my research. As my typeface
    is intended to cover many latin orthographies which are normally ignored (and
    have a very limited amount of available information), I thought it might be a
    good idea to use something like Kickstarter to help raise funds to make my typeface
    as useful and accurate as possible (to both expedite the development process and
    as I have nearly exhausted my own \"research\" funds).\r\n\r\nAt the present time,
    I still go back and forth about whether or not I should go through with the idea
    but in the end, I don't see a problem using Kickstarter is the purpose is something
    other than \"drawing a typeface takes a long time and I want money now\", in which
    case, I'd suggest finding something other than type design as a source of income."
  created: '2012-02-17 04:19:22'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Kickstart-financing the development of fonts is UN-American (irony intended).
    It is waylaying the risk of not being paid for producing something, putting in
    the hours and the work, etc. \r\nDesigning type is a business, with the usual
    dilemma\u2019s of considering investment versus probable returns. Every other
    aspect of type design falls into the category of \u2018amateurs\u2019. "
  created: '2012-02-17 15:57:49'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "\"No one is paying twice.\"\r\n\r\nExactly. One of the many uses of Kickstarter
    is pre-selling a product to fund its development. If you can convince people to
    buy something before it exists (using charm, evidence of past achievement, or
    strength of concept) then more power to you."
  created: '2012-02-17 16:08:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Kickstart-financing the development of fonts is UN-American (irony
    intended). It is waylaying the risk of not being paid for producing something,
    putting in the hours and the work, etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nSome type designers commonly
    never finish a typeface unless a client pays for the development up front. What\u2019s
    the difference between using Kickstarter to get funds for finishing a design and
    sitting on the design for ten or fifteen years until a client finally pays to
    develop it into a family?"
  created: '2012-02-17 16:51:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There are many economic models for type production.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve never
    come across a criticism of arguably the predominant North American method, which
    is a typeface commissioned by a publication, exclusively licenced for a few years,
    then retailed. And yet this model tends to commit accomplished type designers
    to producing unimaginative conservative designs, often \u201Crevivals\u201D. \r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    OEM types commissioned by digital device manufacturers tend to a perfunctory and
    corporate blandness. \r\n\r\nSuch designs are extremely useful and functional,
    but IMO (and I\u2019ve contributed to these genres) uninspiring.\r\n\r\nEven designing
    retail fonts without any form of pre-payment, one can readily strightjacket oneself
    by catering to the ecology of the market with a me-too style.\r\n\r\nKickstarter-funded
    type designs have a degree of autonomy, in that the type designs themselves are
    only part of the funders\u2019 engagement, with rewards such as letterpress specimens
    being a strong carrot.\r\n\r\nThe most interesting new types identify sparsely
    populated or emergent niches, create new breeds (e.g. Ambicase), or demonstrate
    virtuosity informed by taste, style and drawing ability, such as the work of von
    D\xF6hren and Hern\xE1ndez.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nUnless they are down on their luck,
    I don\u2019t see why established type designers would require kickstarting, as
    their accumulated body of work (not to mention commissions) provides ongoing income
    during the development of new types. So Kickstarter appears to function for those
    outside the mainstream, or novices.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, an established type designer
    might use Kickstarter to connect with customers, or as a medium for developing
    specimens, which as we all know are a huge part of type culture."
  created: '2012-02-17 18:22:54'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Kickstarter is pre-selling a product to fund its development\r\n\r\nAnd
    that actually isn't all that uncommon in business. If a new client hires me to
    design a brochure and I want 50% of my fee up front, they are funding the development
    of a piece that doesn't exist yet. Same thing with an architect asking for a retainer,
    etc.  \r\n\r\nPerhaps it's not exactly the same thing, since those are custom
    projects for a specific client, but my point is that paying up front to fund development
    is not that unusual."
  created: '2012-02-17 18:35:43'
- author:
    name: Alfonso
    picture: 111243
  body: "I hate not being able to spell! I can write a book on this subject as I have
    a font on KickStarter right now. The funding goal was a whopping $1.00.  The font
    was started 17 years ago but I would use it from time to time in secondary display
    settings as it was exclusively designed to be used. \r\n\r\nPlease read this post\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/89670\r\n\r\nmy
    KickStarter  font is at\r\nhttp://www.kickstarter.com/projects/2112689177/man-greater-than-money?re...\r\n\r\nMore
    inf to come.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-17 20:50:48'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Defining your own commission is something quite different from receiving
    a commission. \r\n\r\nKickstarter is typically used for getting a design produced,
    a book (that\u2019s already being written) getting printed, a documentary (that
    has been developed) put into production. IMO that\u2019s different from kickstarting
    a typeface, a discipline where the design is the process.\r\n\r\nIf you google
    cases where Kickstarter-projects went totally off course, you will find a common
    denominator: most of these started with an incomplete design or tentative idea,
    with initiators that did not comprehend the process of bringing an idea to fruition.\r\n\r\nJust
    my 2 cts, anyway. Feel free to Kickstart all or any of your type projects (but
    don\u2019t count on me funding that)."
  created: '2012-02-17 21:17:15'
- author:
    name: Alfonso
    picture: 111243
  body: "KickStarter only seams to promote a project after they have raised a good
    deal of capital. So although,  as of this writing the Man Greater Than Money Font
    is 6,800% funded, I receive no promotion from  KickStarter because the dollar
    amount raised is $68.00.\r\n\r\nPlease read this post\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/89670\r\n\r\nmy
    KickStarter font is at\r\nhttp://www.kickstarter.com/projects/2112689177/man-greater-than-money?re...\r\n\r\nMore
    inf to come."
  created: '2012-02-17 21:26:03'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Kickstarter will promote your project if it is novel or interesting, and
    has nothing to do with the raised amount. Trying to raise money for a pre-designed
    font for sale isn't that interesting. \r\n\r\nSome people have seen some success
    trying to kickstart font production for personal profit, but I don't think that
    will last long. People will tire of it. The pre-existing model of creating fonts
    \"on spec\" will be the predominate model after Kickstarter's novelty wears off.
    That said, kickstarter and it's ilk are fantastic entrepreneurial tools that will
    start many businesses and ideas over our lifetimes. \r\n\r\nThe [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invisible_hand|invisible
    hand]] will choose.\r\n\r\nA kickstarter's value is in the idea or the utility
    of the idea, and a font idea probably won't float if the idea benefits just the
    designer; a community generally needs to benefit.\r\n\r\nFrom a pure dollars and
    cents perspective, the Chatype project is being done at a (huge) loss. But the
    utility to the Chattanooga community will be enormous, and the collateral benefit
    to the typographic and design community will be even larger. The press response
    Chatype has received is amazing, and I think the idea will spark custom, limited
    typefaces all over the USA.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-17 21:49:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Has anyone thought of bring up the concept of \u201C<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disneyfication\">Disneyfication</a>\u201D
    in this context? In Halifax, Nova Scotia, the largest industry is tourism. As
    such, the majority of our waterfront has been transformed into a tacky tourist
    version of itself, where they force minimum wage employees in taverns and the
    like to dress up in period costumes, walk along the boardwalk, sing old-tyme sailor
    tunes &c, all veiled in the spirit of cultural preservation. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    an interesting discussion though. Imagine an endangered species. You can let it
    die, or put it in a cage and breed it. However, by caging it, even though you
    are keeping it alive, you are removing it\u2019s natural ability to adapt and
    thrive in a changing environment, ultimately working against your own end.\r\n\r\nThe
    closest real-world example I can think of is the passing of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charter_of_the_French_Language\">Bill
    101</a> in Qu\xE9bec city, 1997. It legally required you to have all of your signage
    with French as the predominant language ie; bigger and at the top. This was very
    controversial at the time.\r\n\r\nBut again, it raises the question, what is the
    best way to preserve, or in the case of Chattanooga and Chatype, promote, a culture
    in a natural and sustainable fashion?\r\n\r\nWill there be city-wide brand strategy?
    Signage restrictions? An identity-standards manual for all businesses? What if
    my business is from a different culture? Am I still required to use Chatype?\r\n\r\nFood
    for thought."
  created: '2012-02-18 01:21:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Signage restrictions? An identity-standards \r\n> manual for all businesses?
    \r\n\r\nMost cities have signage restrictions (size, location, illumination, etc.)
    and require businesses to obtain permits before erecting new signs. The rules
    are typically much more restrictive in upscale or historic areas.  \r\n\r\nBut
    requiring that all merchants use the same typeface would not only be a dumb idea
    but also would certainly result in a rebellion by local merchants and city officials
    would get the boot at the next election.\r\n\r\nBut using it for official city
    signs and projects would be a more realistic and doable goal.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-18 01:54:26'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "\"Will there be city-wide brand strategy? Signage restrictions? An identity-standards
    manual for all businesses? What if my business is from a different culture? Am
    I still required to use Chatype?\"\r\n\r\nNo to all. We are just putting the tools
    into the designers hands. No directive from on high to use it. No brand manual,
    nothing. If a designer wants to incorporate it into the city brand someday (and
    that is likely) then they make the choice. \r\n\r\nThat said, local designers
    are embracing it enthusiastically, but they will be the ones to choose what to
    do with it."
  created: '2012-02-18 16:28:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually this is the perfect opportunity to educate\r\npeople about the
    technical limits of setting a given\r\nfont. Not least: What size does it work
    best at?\r\n\r\nYou should also use it to promote\r\nsome formal education on
    Cherokee.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-18 16:33:36'
date: '2012-02-14 09:52:21'
node_type: forum
title: Crowdfunding for typeface projects

---
