---
author:
  name: venticaratteruzzi
  picture: 114353
body: Any suggestion for music fonts from good foundries?
comments:
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "None.\r\n\r\nCould you be more precise on the task in question?"
  created: '2012-02-22 14:08:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I\u2019ve heard about music type from the metal days but nothing (of high
    typographic quality) recent. I\u2019ve been dreaming about picking up the tradition
    for a while, but there\u2019s always another more important bezier to draw. Do
    you have a budget? Interested in collaborating on something?"
  created: '2012-02-22 14:59:22'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "The problem is not drawing the Glyphs. The problem is the encoding. There
    are at least three (!) completely different ways of encoding musical notation
    out there. \r\n\r\nHave your pick  :-)"
  created: '2012-02-22 16:05:17'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "Except for an excellent and well researched [[http://marello.org/caeciliae/|Caeciliae]]
    or [[http://anatoletype.net/projects/gregoria/index_html|Gregoria]], both for
    Gregorian chant, there\u2019s nothing decent really. P22 got once a [[http://p22.com/products/musicpro.html|Music
    Pro]] package with modern notation, but I see it as an experiment for nothing
    more than rapid typesetting of a simplified double staff notation only.\r\n\r\nI
    have serious plans for making some real revivals of mensural music types like
    those ascribed to Jacomo Ungaro, Petrucci\u2019s type provider. I\u2019m also
    thinking to make Caeciliae, as it\u2019s open source, to be Unicode compliant
    and its input more suited for professional typesetting environment, not just word
    processor. Anyway, it\u2019s good to hear someone's picking those issues up.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-22 16:10:08'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "Most music notation software/scorewriters (the big ones being Finale and
    Sibelius) have their own proprietary built-in fonts. That's also the software
    most music typographers (\"engravers\" is the official but technically-incorrect
    term for some bizarre reason) use, and I know at least Finale is able to import
    custom fonts.\r\n\r\nThe fonts included in my copy of Finale are pretty-awful-to-deeply-abysmal,
    and better ones would definitely be appreciated. I do think separate versions
    would have to be made for the two big software players as they probably use different
    glyph sets with any luck."
  created: '2012-02-22 16:11:01'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026revivals of mensural music types like those ascribed to Jacomo
    Ungaro, Petrucci\u2019s type provider</cite>\r\n\r\nA good idea. I happen to have
    done it already, halfway through. The question is, is there a market for such
    fonts? Is there a market for re-typed Petrucci editions? And again: there is no
    encoding yet for mensural notation characters. \r\n\r\n<cite>The fonts included
    in my copy of Finale are pretty-awful-to-deeply-abysmal, and better ones would
    definitely be appreciated.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems to be similar with Sibelius.
    I know musicians from the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra who are becoming sick while
    playing year by year from badly \u201Cengraved\u201D music. In the opera it is
    dark and they just don\u2019t see what they are supposed to perform. They have
    now decided to start making their own editions because the major music providers
    obviously ignore the problem."
  created: '2012-02-22 17:41:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's strange that it's not in Unicode.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-22 19:34:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: http://www.mu.qub.ac.uk/tomita/bachfont/
  created: '2012-02-22 19:51:21'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "<em>It's strange that it's not in Unicode.</em>\r\n\r\nAnyone have a good
    answer to this? Even if some symbols are sort of unsuitable to encode as straightforward
    glyphs under the current system (because they need to seamlessly and without distortion
    stretch to any length), a lot of them are very clearly modular or standalone and
    all of them are typographic and/or chirographic in nature. Also, the usefulness
    of having many of them exist in running text is demonstrated by the \"Bach font\"
    above.\r\n\r\nEven the most complex of the fonts included with the music typesetting
    software has no more than maybe 200 glyphs. And a lot of them are awesome typographic-origin
    symbols that I hope type designers would enjoy drawing. ;)"
  created: '2012-02-22 21:08:30'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "<cite>Is there a market for re-typed Petrucci editions?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    yet has to be created. Modern transcriptions lose information or don't exist at
    all. More and more performers or scholars would like to or thus are forced to
    read the source notation, but contemporary editions of original notation are a
    true rarity. Facsimiles, in turn, in today's digital diversity are becoming frustrating
    to use. Not to mention there's no way to work with such documents textually. Besides,
    there's clearly an emerging market for encoded modern notation; the early one,
    I think, will follow.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026there is no encoding yet for mensural
    notation characters.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut there is, right in Unicode. Mensural notes,
    rests, mensuration signs, <em>croix</em>. For other characters like different
    clefs, repeats, flat, <em>signum congruentiae</em> or <em>corona</em> there're
    code points of their modern counterparts, at least as I understand it, just like
    a uncial script shares its code points with a humanist. I think there's only <em>custos</em>
    which is missing, but it had no real textual function, so I can imagine Perry
    Roland, who proposed the encoding, decided just to omit it entirely (unfortunately,
    in my view)."
  created: '2012-02-22 21:19:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> decided just to omit it entirely (unfortunately, in my view).\r\n\r\nNote
    that submitting a proposal for an addition\r\nto Unicode isn't too daunting. I'd
    go for it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-22 21:22:50'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>It's strange that it's not in Unicode.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo it is not strange.
    Unicode is not the Holy Bible. It\u2019s the result of a process, conducted by
    humans, influenced by interests. \r\nMusical notation is a very, *very* complex
    and disparate subject (in technical terms).\r\nIt is perhaps even more complicated
    than Mathematic formula composing or Egyptian Hieroglyphs. To encode that to full
    extend, this requires considerable effort and research. Who is supposed to fund
    that?\r\n\r\nYes there are a couple of musical \u2018symbols\u2019 (stupid term)
    in the UCS. One can use them for putting tiny pieces of notation into running
    text, that has its uses, surely. But you can not set actual music scores with
    it. If you look at Petrucci\u2019s lettercase: there you have the *character set*
    needed for that \u2013 and that is not encoded.\r\n\r\nIt is similar with Byzantine
    musical notation, neumes, square notation, mensural notation and modern notation:
    a few basic glyphs are encoded, but that is not sufficient for setting actual
    music scores.\r\n\r\nNow the interesting point with the lead-type based mensural
    notation (as introduced by Petrucci) is: it is technically the only *discrete*
    system of music notation. Because all other habits of doing it where either handwriting
    or engraving-like, hence not a system of limited discrete parts as in the lettercase.
    So, for that reason, Petrucci ought to be the actual first candidate of music
    becoming encoded at all. Because this system is more related to our system of
    text processing than other kinds of music."
  created: '2012-02-22 23:15:12'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "Hrant, how many years it took capital eszett, with support of the community
    and later the DIN itself, to be included in Unicode? Four? (Hat tip to Andreas,
    by the way.) But even that is not the real issue. Problem with any changes to
    such things as music notation characters in Unicode is that there hasn't been
    yet any real, large-scale applications of it (no I'm aware of) and it's hard to
    tell what really works and what doesn\u2019t."
  created: '2012-02-22 23:30:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Who is supposed to fund that?\r\n\r\nThe guys who funded Klingon?  :-/\r\nI'm
    kidding of course, but I'm <em>not</em> kidding when\r\nit comes to remaining
    surprised that something\r\nas central to human society as music hasn't been\r\nproperly
    encoded yet. Unicode has been around\r\nfor over 20 years, and music has been
    around for\r\nthousands of years; people spend a ton of money\r\nmaking, nurturing
    and listening to music. Collecting\r\nmoney to see this realized should be a piece
    of cake.\r\nThere must be something else going wrong. Might it\r\nbe that musicians
    are bickering so much over how\r\nto do it that nothing is getting done? Just
    a hunch.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-22 23:41:39'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Hrant, in principle I agree with you.\r\nBut.\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re talking
    about *what*, that is idealism.\r\n\r\nIn the real world, things happen according
    to the *who*, that is realism.\r\n\r\nThere is no \u2018High Council of Human
    Script and Notation\u2019 which would wisely conduct things which are reasonable.
    Unicode is funded by MS, Google, Apple and all the other big players who have
    their interests. Petrucci did not belong to it so far. Nor did Beethoven, I\u2019m
    afraid.\r\n\r\nLook at another example: the big players force sets of \u201Csymbols/emoji/pictographs\u201D
    into the standard. Which is actually a worthy task, but: HOW they do it. (Can\u2019t
    tell you how the recent picto additions would have looked like if not Ireland
    and Germany would have been so lunatic to fight against it like mad idiots. Smashing
    \u201CWindings\u201D into the standard because it\u2019s declared being \u201Cpopular\u201D,
    that is the ratio behind those endeavours. Little thought, little reflection,
    little intelligence; no science, no principles, no scruples. Nothing.) \r\n\r\nDespite
    the issues mentioned I maintain that Unicode is a wonderful thing.\r\n\r\nI just
    point at this general problem briefly, to prevent you from assuming that Unicode
    would be build on grounds of any reasonable blueprint. It is business interests
    and bloody pragmatism, not more, not less. If you can deal with that, you may
    succeed. But be prepared for the worst.\r\n\r\nBut back to music. I\u2019m interested
    in that because I\u2019m working on a long-term editorial project in that field.
    During the last 14 months I have been typesetting a volume about the musical notation
    (Europe) of the 17th and 18th century. Of course I use the relevant established
    codepoints for eminent musical characters which occur in the text. But, the whole
    set I actually need for composing that treatise is four times as large as covered
    by te UCS. So it goes the usual way: private encoding of special characters. It
    is a hack, and everyone else will remain hacking for himself as long as there
    is no substantial research and development initiative for music encoding, possibly
    focussed on feeding the ISO/UC encoding procedure. Taken the particular complexity
    and diversity of the matter into account, I don\u2019t see any possible stakeholder
    to embark on this so far. \u2013 Maybe this is a general issue: the week position
    of the humanities before the computer industry. We will not solve this problem
    tonight.\r\n\r\nJust proposing single additional characters may help in some respect,
    but it will not solve the overall conundrum.\r\n\r\nWhat are YOU listening to??\r\nMe:
    Crystal Radio Beautiful Music. \u201CAll Day, all night, all nice\u201D :-) very
    cheerful.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-23 01:03:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It is business interests and bloody pragmatism, not more, not less.\r\n\r\nSadly,
    I believe you.\r\n\r\n> What are YOU listening to??\r\n\r\nAs much as possible,
    Goa - which I consider\r\nto be the Classical of the 21st century.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-23 01:54:31'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Incidentally I found an illustration from the old days of hand setting:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/musiknotensatz_4041.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    bottom part is a synopsis of the \xBBaround 360 type elements necessary for music
    typesetting\xAB. The upper right hand part I find particularly interesting, it
    shows the separate type elements that combined produce the image below it.\r\n\r\nThe
    accompanying text notes that this technique was only be feasible for short passages
    of music that had to be printed together with running text in a book. For settings
    which consist mainly of music notation, the text explains that the music would
    usually be engraved, printed and then an etching would be made of it.\r\n\r\nThe
    book is \xBBBuchgewerbliches Hilfsbuch\xAB by Otto S\xE4uberlich, Verlag Oscar
    Brandstetter, Leipzig 1938."
  created: '2012-02-23 18:44:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>The upper right hand part I find particularly interesting, it
    shows the separate type elements that combined produce the image below it.</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\nThere's the recipe for an OpenType solution if anyone is cooking!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-23 19:00:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Awesome find Jens.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-23 19:09:55'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "The comment about hand setting reminded me that Letraset used to sell music
    symbols as dry transfer letters (on a clear plastic carrier sheet and you'd transfer
    them to paper by rubbing with a stylus). \r\n\r\nNot practical for large projects,
    but I remember using it years ago for some small music projects."
  created: '2012-02-24 17:41:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Seeing the elements they used would be useful.\r\nAny chance of digging anything
    up?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-24 17:46:51'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Sorry, I tossed away my Letraset sheets many years ago.
  created: '2012-02-25 01:34:34'
- author:
    name: de l'education
    picture: 123123
  body: "some small example of dry transfer here\r\nhttp://www.musicprintinghistory.org/stencils/transfers.html\r\nin
    the same site, some info about old ways to print music notation (the site is not
    complete yet).\r\nI even heard about music linotypes (i really would like to see
    one of them!!)\r\nanyway, the best resource about all the history of music printing
    is this book by Kummel & Sadie\r\n<a href=\"http://books.google.it/books/about/Music_printing_and_publishing.html?id=UcoXAQAAIAAJ&redir_esc=y\"
    target=\"_blank\">music printing and publishing</a>\r\n\r\nJens, I can't see your
    image... are you talking about mosaic type? P.S. Fournier wrote a lot about it
    in his manuel typographyque.\r\n\r\nabout modern music fonts, the market is linked
    to specific softwares (i know about rare music foundries for music fonts only,
    they use to set the fonts for softwares like Finale or Sibelius).\r\n\r\nOne of
    the most interesting works of type-design I know was made for the Lilypond font,
    you can read an essay <a href=\"http://lilypond.org/web/about/automated-engraving/big-page\"
    target=\"_blank\">here</a>\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-16 21:01:03'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "The book I mentioned earlier in this conversation has been released these
    days. For those who are interested:\r\n[[http://andron-typeforum.xobor.de/t8f9-On-musical-notation-a-new-book.html|here]]
    are some views and further links."
  created: '2012-06-19 12:14:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The problem is not putting the symbols that occur within a musical score
    in Unicode. That, as has been noted, <em>has</em> been done, to some extent.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is that a musical score is more than a string of characters. If one thinks
    in terms of a left-to-right writing direction, then how is one to indicate which
    notes are to be in the same vertical column as which other notes, indicating that
    they are both sounded at the same moment in time?\r\n\r\nEssentially, music scores
    are two-dimensional. Each note belongs to a certain part, and begins at a certain
    moment in time. ASCII and other character codings are inherently one-dimensional.
    The problems this causes for mathematical notation are basically solved by treating
    the notation as a series of nested brackets for constructs such as \"superscript/subscript
    pair\". Musical scores need a completely different approach.\r\n\r\nWhich is not
    to say that there may not already be an elegant solution involving TEX, but sadly,
    despite its power and elegance, that system is mainly relegated to the sidelines
    for a number of reasons.\r\n\r\nThere are open-source programs out there which
    generate musical scores, I believe - I know there are some that are at least freeware.
    Thus, there should eventually be an accessible encoding that handles the features
    required for specifying a musical score of reasonable appearance."
  created: '2012-06-23 22:44:14'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: As far as I can recall, the note editor Lilypond is open source. I think it
    even has some reasonable fonts and faces.
  created: '2012-06-24 17:42:05'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "T\xE9:  Lilypond comes with 9 overlapping otf font files named emmentaler-11,
    -13, etc. They have extensive music notation symbols in the private use area.\r\nAlso
    included are four URW++ Century Schoolbook fonts with added Cyrillic - unusual
    for a GNU product, to say the least!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-24 20:28:14'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Oi dunno... As far as I know, the GPLed urw++ fonts have all been Cyrillised
    by one Valek Filippov.\r\n\r\nThe main driving force behind many open-source projects
    is 'scratching <em>my</em> itch', and if it scratches someone else's itch, too...
    why, dat's a bunce."
  created: '2012-06-25 13:59:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Unicode is unlikely to encode characters for music notation until something
    like <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MusicXML">Music XML</a> becomes an
    official standard. A parallel is the development of MathML and subsequent encoding
    of math alphanumeric characters.  Encoding specialised characters without first
    establishing and understanding the framework in which they will be used is not
    a good idea.
  created: '2012-06-29 00:28:50'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "That comparison with MathML is excellent. You cannot create \"a math font\"
    for pretty much the same reasons. An equation may have superscripts, and in those
    there may be subscripts again. And they, in turn \"have smaller still to bite'em\".
    What would a font for that look like -- every character in every possible smaller
    size? The same goes, of course, for horizontal and vertical extensions of braces
    and division bars.\r\n\r\nJust as a \"regular\" OpenType library such as UniScribe
    handles the logic between font and output, this needs a combination of font plus
    a layer of software to handle it."
  created: '2012-06-29 18:27:57'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "/subscribe\r\n\r\nAs a musician I'm interested in anything that can help
    me quickly notate music. I'm not smart enough to write scores (I play rock and
    roll) but I'll take a robust notation system."
  created: '2012-07-16 00:23:43'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Traditionally most music was directly engraved on metal plates. This was
    true through essentially all of the 20th century despite all the technological
    improvements in other forms of paper publishing. It\u2019s only recently that
    computer-engraved music has started to catch on, and even then a lot of professional
    orchestral musicians dislike it (with good reason). YouTube has <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=345o3Wu95Qo\">a
    video</a> or <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=345o3Wu95Qo\">two</a> from
    G. Henle demonstrating the process.\r\n\r\nThe attempts at typesetting music were
    never very popular and never produced anything more than tolerable results. Music
    is much more tricky than text. It\u2019s at least equal to the complexity of typesetting
    mathematics, if not more difficult. For starters, music is inherently two dimensional
    in comparison to the linearity of text. Whitespace is also radically different,
    and fairly minor changes in spacing can have profound effects on the way we read
    music. Music also often has to fit a grid, at the very least in bar structure,
    whereas text ideally should <em>not</em> be vertically aligned (otherwise we see
    rivers etc.).\r\n\r\nLilypond is probably the best computer engraving software
    that is publicly available. (There are probably in-house systems in use by music
    publishers which aren\u2019t available to the public.) The default <em>text</em>
    produced by Lilypond leaves something to be desired. But the music it produces
    is quite good and often approaches hand-engraved quality. Lilypond is also constantly
    improving and the developers benchmark their work against hand-engraved examples.
    It\u2019s really a major triumph for free software, since Lilypond has essentially
    surpassed all the commercial competition, at least what\u2019s available outside
    the walls of music publishing companies.\r\n\r\nBTW, the term \u2018score\u2019
    for printed music comes from the scoring of the five lines of the staff into the
    metal. That\u2019s the very first thing in physical engraving of music."
  created: '2012-07-17 07:43:20'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "<blockquote>\u2026a lot of them [musical symbols] are awesome typographic-origin
    symbols that I hope type designers would enjoy drawing.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nEmilio
    just picked this up: music notation in style of Didot, Garamond, and more as a
    thesis of Giovanni Murolo, [[http://aiapzine.aiap.it/notizie/13899|Nuovi metodi
    di rappresentazione nella notation musicale]]. See the pics in the gallery or
    at [[http://flickr.com/photos/giovannimurolo/7171830942/in/set-72157629667850972|Flickr]].
    The process of adaptation he has used seems rather na\xEFve, but these shapes
    look really nice and certainly were a joy to draw."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: "@Grzegorz Rolek,\r\n\r\nThat's amazing and inspiring!"
    created: '2012-12-18 20:07:20'
  created: '2012-12-18 19:10:17'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: I should probably add that the flexible spacing in modern scores, which maybe
    gives it this overall complex appearance, is just a visual aid and is by no means
    subject to encoding. Scores can be easily disassembled into isolated lines, all
    the spacing taken off, and there would be no loss of information. It still would
    be read as properly synchronized, running texts in parallel. In fact, this is
    exactly what is being done with a full score while creating sheets of individual
    parts for individual performers to read.
  created: '2012-12-18 19:12:55'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "Unicode\u2019s musical symbols were indeed intended for running text or to
    be used with a markup for layout, so technically it's not suitable for music <em>scores</em>,
    but Petrucci\u2019s settings were no <em>scores</em> either. The very nature of
    Petrucci setting his editions was just a set of isolated lines of music without
    any special spacing or lyrics underneath. Invention of white mensural notation
    allowed that and that\u2019s what Petrucci took advantage of, hence similarities
    with a running text.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't mean earlier or later music notation
    wasn't discrete. In fact, early music incunabula were mostly a rather successful
    plainchant settings of discrete metal types. It just has had to be spaced along
    underlying text, the very basis of plainchant. (In fact, given the inseparability
    of text and neumes in plainchant, the latter could be also treated as some form
    of combining marks.)\r\n\r\nNow, a modern score is just a few more such parallel
    runs of music lines. Proper spacing would still be needed for horizontal synchronization,
    but it could be automatically derived from the text itself. What really is missing
    in the Unicode for music to be encoded fully, then, are control code points for
    vertical position of characters within any such line, i.e., within a staff. That\u2019s
    it.\r\n\r\nYes, there are exceptions like with the fermata or dynamics, which
    in such case should be encoded also as non-spacing combining marks. But this,
    for now, could be bypassed by treating it as another such parallel line of text,
    just as LilyPond software does it conceptually. And sure there will always be
    some peculiarities of notation in any given era or site not yet encoded or encoded
    badly, but that's the case with most non-mainstream scripts.\r\n\r\nSo, Unicode's
    not perfect, no doubt for that, but the beast called musical notation isn't so
    complex as it seems, and things with the encoding don't look as bad as that."
  created: '2012-12-18 19:37:15'
- author:
    name: Liuscorne
  body: "This might be of interest. It's part of the development of a new music notation
    program at Steinberg.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.smufl.org/\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.steinberg.net/2013/05/introducing-bravura-music-font/"
  created: '2013-06-01 02:04:30'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "Here\u2019s another nice take on music typesetting: [[http://notationstypografie.de|Notationstypografie]],
    a thesis by Stephanie T\xFCrck. These are six different works from different contemporary
    composers \u2014 all set with different, custom type. For each work there\u2019s
    a dedicated page with detailed photos of the score in print. They look great."
  created: '2013-10-07 12:24:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I kinda skimmed this thread, but there are musical symbols in plane 1 Unicode.
    Didn't see any mention of this, or perhaps I missed it. I do remember mapping
    the Adobe Postscript musical symbols font (Sonata) there when things went from
    *names* to Unicode...\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Musical_Symbols_%28Unicode_block%29\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, as John said, the problem isn't just with the symbols per se, but as
    with mathematical symbols, the necessary software to set music."
  created: '2013-10-07 22:30:45'
- author:
    name: Mark1567
  body: "Jens, the font from \"Buchgewerbliches Hilfsbuch\" is also available for
    Finale (for free!). \r\nIt is called \"Gutenberg1939\" (for Finale: GtbrgFIN).\r\nExample
    images of this font can be found here:\r\nhttps://elbsound.studio/music-font-comparison.php?font=GtbrgFIN\r\nFont
    download: https://elbsound.studio/elbsound-music-font-package-for-finale.php"
  created: '2017-06-01 08:30:00'
- author:
    name: Dorins
    picture: 130003
  body: Great music for this
  created: '2017-06-08 11:21:50'
date: '2012-02-21 15:11:35'
title: Fonts for music typesetting

---
