---
author:
  name: frederich
body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nI have been trying to create a PHP script to extract
  the information included in a font file. So far I have managed to get the information
  from the \"name\" table with success. \r\n\r\nThe next step would be to list the
  glyphs of the font. But as for now, I feel a little confused about where this information
  is located in the font file. If I consider this thread : http://typophile.com/node/16695#comment-99516\r\n\r\nI
  quote : \"the glyph names are stored in the \"post\" table\"\r\n\r\nThis is the
  first question in my mind, to make sure where this information is.\r\n\r\nBut to
  be completely honest, I don't get the structure of the \"post\" table, as seen <a
  href=\"https://developer.apple.com/fonts/ttrefman/rm06/Chap6post.html\">here</a>.
  \r\n\r\nWhat I don't really understand right now is the type of data (Fixed, and
  FWord) even though it's explained <a href=\"https://developer.apple.com/fonts/ttrefman/rm06/Chap6.html#Types\">here</a>.
  As I use the unpack() function to get this information, I should specify a format,
  and this is where I'm confused.\r\n\r\nIf anyone has any information about my questions,
  I would be really grateful :)\r\n\r\nFrederic\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Cor! That's old documentation!\r\n\r\n<cite>.. the information included in
    a font file ..</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is No Such Thing as \"a\" font file. What sort
    of files are you referring to? DFONT? Type 1? Truetype? Opentype? Your mentioning
    a \"name\" table suggests the latter.\r\n\r\nLet's get the most important bits
    right first. I'm surprised you refer to that old page, because it's last updated
    around 2003 (and frankly even that late date surprises me). The reason for that
    is because that particular sub-site of Apple's deals with (their version of) Truetype,
    and Truetype fonts have long been abandoned by everyone in favour of the Opentype
    format. True, it's more or less the same, but you should be reading stuff like\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype.html\r\n\r\n(the
    latter refers back to the Microsoft site for the main documents but still contains
    lots of useful additional info).\r\n\r\nRegarding the format of the 'post' table:
    this is, actually, still relevant for Opentype fonts. There are different <em>formats</em>
    in which the data can be stored; you should read the format first and then decide
    what else you need to know. <em>But</em> before I get your hopes up: one of the
    formats that is used frequently is type 3: 'explicit no-name table', which means
    there are <em>no</em> glyph names stored in the file (they might be stored as
    part of the CFF data in a Type 1 style OTF, which is yet something else).\r\n\r\nBut
    yet again, this might be not what you were after. The 'post' table allows access
    to <em>unique glyph names</em> in a font, for example, a regular 'A' that is called
    'A' and an alternate A called \"A.alt\". Perhaps what you describe would best
    be achieved by examining the <em>character map</em> instead -- <code>'cmap'</code>.
    (Read the documentation I referred to why I believe this.)"
  created: '2012-02-23 13:59:25'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Thank you very much for your answer.\r\n\r\nYou're right, that's some old
    documentation :) I had found the Microsoft one too, so I'll be using this one
    and the Adobe one from now on. Thank you for pointing this out and thank you for
    the links !\r\n\r\nSorry for not being accurate on the font format. To be 100%
    honest with you I am still very confused about the file formats. I used to believe
    that .ttf stood for TrueType fonts, and .otf for OpenType fonts, but after reading
    a few documents about that, I feel kind of lost about that. That's it, I said
    it, and I'm not ashamed :) Well, maybe, just a little bit, but at least I admitted
    I didn't know something instead of trying to pretend.\r\n\r\nBut let's go back
    to the last two paragraphs of your answer, admitting that it's OpenType I'm looking
    for. Concerning the 'post' table, when I open the font file I'm using for tests
    in a hexadecimal editor, I can locate the beginning of the 'post' table, and see
    the value of \"version\" (if that is what you are referring to by saying \"formats\"
    ?) and the value in my case is \"2\", which seems to be at least possible :) The
    only issue would be to mix it with PHP by finding the appropriate format to \"unpack\"
    the information.\r\n\r\nTo be more accurate, I'd like to list all the characters
    that the font has. I'm sorry if I don't use all the appropriate terms, but as
    a non-native English speaker, when it comes to \"technical\" vocabulary I might
    not use all the correct words. Anyway, I've tried to locate the information in
    the 'cmap' table first before digging in the 'post' table. I can get the version,
    the number of subtables, then the platform ID, encoding ID, and offset for every
    subtable. In the font I was using, there were 3 subtables. The first subtable
    was in format 4. But then I got completely lost with the format 4 explanation
    and how to unpack the information. I managed to unpack the beginning, but the
    end doesn't make sense so I guess I've made a mistake somewhere. I also don't
    really understand the 'segment' part, to be honest.\r\n\r\nYeah, I know, still
    a lot of work to do :)\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-23 14:49:38'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Most of the documentation is this obscure (although probably not <em>intentionally</em>).\r\n\r\nI
    had similar experience doing my own investigations, I had to examine some of the
    tables one byte at a time before I finally understood (retroactively) what the
    documentation was trying to tell me :-)"
  created: '2012-02-23 14:57:48'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "I guess I'm in the same position right now, and I think what I lack is in
    which \"order\" should I get all the information, am I right ? I'm sure I will
    see the light once :) \r\n\r\nI believe the truth must be somewhere around here
    ?\r\n\r\n\"1 . A four-word header gives parameters for an optimized search of
    the segment list.\r\n2. Four parallel arrays describe the segments (one segment
    for each contiguous range of codes).\r\n3. A variable-length array of glyph IDs
    (unsigned words).\"\r\n\r\nBut then again, I really have to figure out how to
    unpack this. If you have any trick :)"
  created: '2012-02-23 15:14:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Wouldn't DTLs OTMaster give you what you are looking for?
  created: '2012-02-23 15:47:58'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Chris, thank you so much for the advice, it will be perfect for checking
    where I'm going and what I'm \"unpacking\" :) I have downloaded a light version
    just to check and it seems really great.\r\n\r\nThe only issue is that I would
    like to be able to get all this with PHP and gather the info in arrays. But DTL
    OTMaster is kinda comforting me in the fact that I'm going in the good direction
    :D So far, I have got the good info for the two first subtables of the font I'm
    testing - the third one has the same offset, I still have to figure this out.
    It doesn't help me to go further in the 'cmap' subtables though :D"
  created: '2012-02-23 17:25:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "You might also find TTX useful. It's a command line tool that takes an .otf
    or .ttf font as input and outputs a XML text file representation of the font (i.e.,
    a .ttx file). It also works in reverse.\r\n\r\nMore info here: http://www.letterror.com/code/ttx/"
  created: '2012-02-23 18:11:35'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Ah Mark, should have thought of that. Yup, that's what I'm comparing my output
    against.
  created: '2012-02-23 18:57:34'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Thank you Mark ! Having an output I can use is pretty interesting, also to
    check what I'm looking for :) Thanks to these two tools, it will be much easier
    to see through the font.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have any advice concerning the segments
    or the \"unpacking\" of the 'cmap' subtables ?"
  created: '2012-02-23 19:20:18'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Does anyone have any advice concerning the segments or the \"unpacking\"
    of the 'cmap' subtables ?</em>\r\n\r\nSince you're a programmer, I'd recommend
    you look into the table decompiling code in the <a href=\"http://sourceforge.net/projects/fonttools/files/2.3/\">FontTools</a>
    distribution. If you know PHP, Python shouldn't be too difficult ;)"
  created: '2012-02-23 22:05:56'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: <em>i.e.</em> <code><strong>fonttools-2.3/Lib/fontTools/ttLib/tables/_c_m_a_p.py</strong></code>
  created: '2012-02-23 22:50:35'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Jens, Michel, thank you thank you thank you so much :) I will give it a try
    right after posting this message :) In the meantime I have also found a script
    in C so both might be able to help me ! And it will be a good introduction to
    Python !\r\n\r\nHas anyone tried this around here before, extracting this kind
    of information with PHP ?\r\n\r\nThank you very much to everyone who took the
    time to read my modest topic and to share their knowledge to help me improve mine
    :)"
  created: '2012-02-24 09:04:59'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Maybe this could help you?\r\nhttp://pomax.nihongoresources.com/pages/Font.js/\r\n\r\nIt's
    JavaScript but it might give you some inspiration."
  created: '2012-02-28 09:24:11'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Thank you Tim for your help, it will be good to have all these examples !\r\n\r\nThank
    to everyone, I have made significant progress since the beginning of my topic.
    I have now understood the way a format 4 subtable is organized, and was able to
    get the information I wanted. I will now continue with the format 6, and 0, which
    are other formats I have met on fonts I have tested.\r\n\r\nOnce again, thank
    you very much to everyone !"
  created: '2012-02-28 13:16:36'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Well, I allow myself to bounce back on my last answer.\r\n\r\nI have successfully
    extracted the data inside a format 6 subtable, that was also in the 'cmap' table
    of the font I am testing. Now I'm asking myself, is it relevant to do so ? Since
    the <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/cmap.htm\">documentation</a>
    says :\r\n\r\n<em>\"All Microsoft Unicode BMP encodings (Platform ID = 3, Encoding
    ID = 1) must provide at least a Format 4 'cmap' subtable\".</em>\r\n\r\nAnd\r\n\r\n<em>\"If
    the font is meant to support supplementary Unicode characters, it will additionally
    need a Format 12 subtable with a platform encoding ID 10.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSo, if
    I sum up this, the only \"required\" subtables would be a format 4, and eventually
    format 12. Since the format 4 'cmap' subtable is compulsory, all the information
    I need should be there, shouldn't it ? Or there are possibilities I might actually
    miss letters in my letters-listing process ?"
  created: '2012-02-28 18:59:06'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "It's as fuzzy as all other wording on the subject ;-)\r\n\r\nThe problem
    lies in the maximum number of bytes allowed for each <em>character code</em>.
    The oldest tables, for example, only allow a single byte; hence the long list
    of different \"languages\" for the Mac tables. The next generation of tables supported
    Unicode, a 2-byte character definition. It was thought at the time that \"surely
    65,536 codes are enough for everybody\" (echoing what Bill Gates is said to have
    said on memory) ... So that's what Windows supports with its Platform 3 stuff.\r\n\r\nNow
    we know 65,536 codes is not merely enough -- on one end, the Unicode Consortium
    valiantly attempts to define a code for all existing glyphs so far, and on the
    other end people are making up new glyphs by the thousands (ie. Klingon, emoticons)
    and then <em>demand</em> to be taken seriously by the UC consorts and be included
    in the next \"definitive list of all Human Glyphs\" :D\r\n\r\nBack in the ol'
    2-byte Unicode days, there was a system called Unicode Surrogates, that reserves
    a chunk of 2-byte codes to only be used in pairs, forming (gasp!) 4-byte codes.
    That was sort of a stop-gap solution, IIRC to make the 2-byte definition swallow
    a large extra lump of CJK characters without breaking the old definition. That's
    what you see in the format 4 definition.\r\n\r\nMy understanding is format 4 only
    allows <em>some</em> 4-byte Unicodes, and format 8 and higher allows all of them,
    but I'd have to see an example before I can work out the difference.\r\n\r\nNote
    that just like you should not be confusing <em>glyps</em> and <em>character codes</em>
    (a distinction you seem to have learned by now), you also must make a distinction
    between encoding table ID's and its physical manifestation. A Platform 3 Encoding
    1 table can appear in many different formats, the font creating software must
    find a table format best suited to its Unicode repertoire. So the more different
    table formats you can read, the better.\r\n\r\nBest advice is to test on as much
    fonts as you can find :-) I just tested a few of my Mac system fonts:\r\n\r\n\u534E\u6587\u7EC6\u9ED1.ttf
    \ (\"STHeiti\") -> 37256 glyphs, 3:0 is format 12, Unicodes up to U+2A6C7\r\n\u5137\u5B8B
    Pro.ttf (\"LiSong Pro\") -> 22581 glyphs, also format 12, UC up to U+2F9D4\r\n\u30D2\u30E9\u30AE\u30CE\u4E38\u30B4
    Pro W4.otf (\"Hiragino Maru Gothic Pro\") -> 20317 glyphs, 3:10 is format 12,
    UC up to U+2F9F4\r\nKen Lund's \"Unicode All\" Stress Test font (see <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/89519\">An
    \"Extreme\" OpenType font for stress-testing</a>) -> 65,535 glyphs, platform 3,
    encoding 1, format 4; UC up to U+10FFFD (this is a 40 byte large table that spits
    out a massive 293,888 lines with 4 codes per line :D )\r\n\r\nI am not aware of
    a Best Practice to find the table with the <em>largest</em> repertoire of characters
    in a given set -- if I would need this, I think I would simply test all of the
    available tables and count the number of entries in each. (I *think* you need
    to iterate over each full table's contents to find the number of supported Unicodes
    because you cannot simply tell from the table header.) And to do so, you need
    to be able to parse every possible table format you can lay your hands on."
  created: '2012-02-29 00:21:13'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Theunis, I'll never thank you enough for your incredible answers. I had to
    read it about 14 times because it is very complicated to me :D But now that my
    third black tea has kicked in, I can try some questions :)\r\n\r\nThank you for
    the explanation and the history of formats :) If I sum up the first three paragraphs,
    do you mean that with the constantly growing number of glyphs, the actual table
    formats might not cover everything, and just like this might skip some because
    it doesn't know them yet ?\r\n\r\nAbout format 4, I was thinking that this format
    <em>\"support Unicode ranges other than the range [U+D800 - U+DFFF]\"</em> - according
    to the Microsoft documentation. So I guess, it must cover what I'm looking for
    ? It's my mistake, but I forgot to mention that I'm willing to get such information
    from fonts that would only have Latin and Cyrillic characters - I'm trying to
    list the characters to be able then to build the corresponding character map still
    with PHP, using a few fonts I have created.\r\n\r\nI'll test this \"format 4 unpacking
    process\" on several fonts to see if it makes sense. :)"
  created: '2012-02-29 14:09:12'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>...  do you mean that with the constantly growing number of glyphs,
    the actual table formats might not cover everything, and just like this might
    skip some because it doesn't know them yet?</cite>\r\n\r\nRight. But that should
    not hold you back, as just about everything is transient -- and more so in the
    field of computers. What is Hot today is laughed at tomorrow. Does anyone remember
    \"Second Life\"? Or (back to type) doesn't anyone who still has to use Type 1
    fonts wish they could upgrade these to the equivalent Opentype fonts?\r\n\r\nYou
    can only support what is known now and wish for the best.\r\n\r\n<cite>About format
    4 [...] I guess, it must cover what I'm looking for?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou can't know
    in advance if that specific <em>format</em> is used. If the cmap data is best
    described in format 2, 6, 12 or 16, that's what you will <em>find</em>. But --\r\n\r\n<cite>..
    I'm willing to get such information from fonts that would only have Latin and
    Cyrillic characters.</cite>\r\n\r\n-- those are pretty basic standards, and well
    inside the 'critical' range of 2-byte Unicodes. So even if you encounter a table
    formatting you cannot extract, one of the others will almost certainly contain
    these character codes.\r\n\r\n(Unless there is only one table in the file, but
    I think that's covered by the requirement you cited to have at least this format
    4 table. I would have to check my fonts to be sure this one <em>is</em>, in fact,
    always included.)\r\n\r\nAll of the above is guesswork based upon my personal
    experience, so anyone with more factual knowledge is hereby invited to point out
    any misconceptions I might be having :)"
  created: '2012-02-29 15:23:39'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "<em>Right. But that should not hold you back, as just about everything is
    transient -- and more so in the field of computers.</em>\r\n\r\nOh it won't hold
    me back, where would be the fun otherwise if things didn't change all the time?
    :D\r\nWhile reading your answer, I had to ask myself when was the last time I
    heard someone talk about Second Life, so, like you say, \"transient\" :)\r\n\r\n<em>Unless
    there is only one table in the file, but I think that's covered by the requirement
    you cited to have at least this format 4 table. I would have to check my fonts
    to be sure this one is, in fact, always included</em>\r\n\r\nI have just spent
    some time checking a few fonts with TTX - a huge \"thank you\" again to Mark for
    making me discover TTX ! - and all of them included at least a format 4 'cmap'
    subtable, so I guess so far, I'll keep in this direction and see where it brings
    me.\r\n\r\n<em>All of the above is guesswork based upon my personal experience</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    far, your personal experience and knowledge, as well as everyone's who helped
    me here, showed me the way to go :) Thank you once again for your precious help
    !"
  created: '2012-02-29 15:58:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There are very few TTF/OTF fonts you will encounter in the wild that do not
    have a format 4 cmap available.\r\n\r\nThe next most important one is probably
    format 12. Though it is doubtless <1% of all TTF/OTF fonts out there that have
    any form of non-BMP characters in them."
  created: '2012-02-29 19:43:53'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: Thank you Thomas for the confirmation ! I'll try to find a font with a format
    12 cmap subtable and work on extracting the information inside to see how it works.
  created: '2012-02-29 21:09:36'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Ken Lund's Stress Test font contains a Format 12 table. It's a small table
    but don't let that deceive you :-/
  created: '2012-02-29 22:06:46'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "To clarify, my UnicodeAll.otf stress-test font includes a 40-byte Format
    4 'cmap' subtable that supports only the BMP (U+0000 through U+FFFD, but excluding
    the 2,048 Surrogates from U+D800 through U+DFFF):\r\n\r\nformat       =4\r\nlength
    \      =0028\r\nlanguageId   =0 [Default]\r\nsegCountX2   =6\r\nsearchRange  =4\r\nentrySelector=1\r\nrangeShift
    \  =2\r\n--- endCode[index]=code\r\n[0]=55295 [1]=65533 [2]=65535 \r\npassword=0\r\n---
    startCode[index]=code\r\n[0]=0 [1]=57344 [2]=65535\r\n--- idDelta[index]=code\r\n[0]=1
    [1]=1 [2]=1 \r\n--- idRangeOffset[index]=code\r\n[0]=0000 [1]=0000 [2]=0000 \r\n---
    glyphId[index]=glyphId\r\n\r\nIts Format 12 'cmap' subtable, which is 232 bytes,
    supports all of Unicode, up through U+10FFFD, meaning 1,112,030 code points:\r\n\r\nformat
    \   =12\r\nlength    =00e8\r\nlanguageId=0 [Default]\r\nnGroups=18\r\n--- Group[index]={startCharCode,endCharCode,startGlyphID}
    \ \r\n[0]={0,55295,1} [1]={57344,65533,57345} [2]={65536,131069,1} [3]={131072,196605,1}
    [4]={196608,262141,1} [5]={262144,327677,1} [6]={327680,393213,1} [7]={393216,458749,1}
    [8]={458752,524285,1} [9]={524288,589821,1} [10]={589824,655357,1} [11]={655360,720893,1}
    [12]={720896,786429,1} [13]={786432,851965,1} [14]={851968,917501,1} [15]={917504,983037,1}
    [16]={983040,1048573,1} [17]={1048576,1114109,1}\r\n\r\n-- Ken\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-01 04:00:12'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Excellent ! Thank you Ken for your explanation :) \r\n\r\nNow, let's get
    my hands dirty :)"
  created: '2012-03-01 08:36:12'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "Below is an interpretation of the \"spot -tcmap\" output above, providing
    Unicode and CID ranges for the eighteen Format 12 mappings that support all 1,112,030
    Unicode code points:\r\n\r\n[0]={0,55295,1} -> U+0000 through U+D7FF map to CIDs
    1 through 55296\r\n[1]={57344,65533,57345} -> U+E000 through U+FFFD map to CIDs
    57345 through 65534\r\n[2]={65536,131069,1} -> U+10000 through U+1FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[3]={131072,196605,1} -> U+20000 through U+2FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[4]={196608,262141,1} -> U+30000 through U+3FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[5]={262144,327677,1} -> U+40000 through U+4FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[6]={327680,393213,1} -> U+50000 through U+5FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[7]={393216,458749,1} -> U+60000 through U+6FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[8]={458752,524285,1} -> U+70000 through U+7FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[9]={524288,589821,1} -> U+80000 through U+8FFFD map to
    CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[10]={589824,655357,1} -> U+90000 through U+9FFFD map
    to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[11]={655360,720893,1} -> U+A0000 through U+AFFFD map
    to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[12]={720896,786429,1} -> U+B0000 through U+BFFFD map
    to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[13]={786432,851965,1} -> U+C0000 through U+CFFFD map
    to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[14]={851968,917501,1} -> U+D0000 through U+DFFFD map
    to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[15]={917504,983037,1} -> U+E0000 through U+EFFFD map
    to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[16]={983040,1048573,1} -> U+F0000 through U+FFFFD
    map to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n[17]={1048576,1114109,1} -> U+100000 through U+10FFFD
    map to CIDs 1 through 65534\r\n\r\n-- Ken\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-01 15:31:10'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "Thanks thanks thaaaanks :)\r\n\r\nI just love it here, you come up with a
    problem while thinking you're the only person asking yourself this kind of question,
    and all of a sudden, BOOM, everyone brings his own stone to my construction :)"
  created: '2012-03-01 21:37:11'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Fredrich: here is an interesting tale. I went your route the other way around;
    given a range of Unicodes, how to build a Format 4 subtable.\r\n\r\nI tried the
    numbers given in the example on Microsoft's OpenType page for 'cmap' -- the hypothetical
    font with glyphs starting at 1 and UC ranges 10-20, 30-90, 153-480 ... and failed
    to reproduce their table <em>again and again</em>! Exasperated (which is a programmer's
    euphemism for \"utterly disgusted and frustrated beyond reason\") I turned back
    to the almighty Web, fully expecting to have to quick-read thousands of lines
    of FreeType code. Until I happened to come across that same example again, but
    this time by Apple: <a href=\"https://developer.apple.com/fonts/ttrefman/rm06/Chap6cmap.html\">TrueType
    Reference Manual</a>. Yup, the very same one I laughed at as being, well, a decade
    old! However, <em>Apple's</em> example differs in one tiny detail. It is correct.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem lies in Microsoft's slightly different \"sample range\".  Character codes
    from 10 to 20 are translated into glyphs with a delta of -9; that uses glyphs
    1 to 11. Codes 30 up to 90, using delta -18, translate to glyphs 22 to 72. Then
    they claim \"153 to 480\", using a delta of -27, translate into \"and so on\",
    meaning the rest of the glyphs. BUT 153 minus 27 is 126, <em>not</em> 73 -- the
    \"next used glyph\".\r\n\r\nApple's third range is \"100-153\", also with delta
    -27 -- and indeed, 100 - 27 = 73, the number I was looking for in MS's example.\r\n\r\nMorale
    of this tale: Give up quickly and first look for an easier solution :-)"
  created: '2012-03-06 21:34:08'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: (Holy Double Posting Syndrome, Batman!)
  created: '2012-03-06 21:35:51'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: "So, always trust the good old documentation seems to be the morale too, no
    ? :D\r\n\r\nExtracting the format 4 subtable is ok now. While testing my script
    with a few fonts, I came across one other thing. If the font has alternates characters,
    these are not listed in the cmap subtables. When I open the font file with the
    alternates characters with DTL OTMaster, the complete list is located in the 'CFF'
    part under the name 'CFF glyph list'. Now I don't think I will actually come across
    these kind of things that often - as I said, only required for basic operations
    - but as I was already there, I said, hey why not try this. So I have downloaded
    the Adobe Documentation regarding this, and I'm now trying to \"decode\" it -
    and I'd like to quote Theunis : \"Most of the documentation is this obscure (although
    probably not intentionally).\" :) - and to understand the structure of this CFF
    table.\r\n\r\nStill some work to do :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-08 12:53:12'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Yah, CFF is fun too -- that's where I get my glyph names from if they are
    not listed in the 'post' table. You have to write a small sort of PostScript interpreter,
    but (in hindsight 'cuz I got it working) it's all perfectly doable.\r\n\r\nWatch
    out for the ROS type Top Dict entries, 'cause any one of these indicate the font
    is so large there is no point in adding a name for each separate character, and
    so there these CFFs contains <em>none</em> at all."
  created: '2012-03-08 14:55:01'
- author:
    name: frederich
  body: Theunis, thank you very much for the advice :) To be honest, I'm not this
    far at the moment, but I'll keep this in mind. I think I have found out how it
    works in TTX, thanks to the python scripts, but I am far, even very far, to actually
    writing a script in PHP. I also think I can see where the information is located
    in the font, when I open it in an Hexadecimal editor, so the whole adventure now
    is to understand how to make this "automatic" :)
  created: '2012-03-08 15:18:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Ken, does your stress-test font also contain a format 14 cmap subtable?
  created: '2012-03-08 19:07:36'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nNo, it does not include a Format 14 'cmap' subtable. One would
    need standardized or registered variation sequences that make sense for the glyph
    set for that.\r\n\r\n-- Ken\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-08 23:34:43'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Ah, table format 14 is that one for Unicode Variation Sequences. One of the
    weirder \"standards\" put forth by the Unicode consortium, if I may say so ;-)\r\n\r\nSome
    of the (extremely large) Chinese and Japanese fonts on my Mac have these, and
    are even usable with InDesign. But if you have a modern version of Windoes, check
    out Cambria. It has a set of alternatives for several mathematical symbols. It
    seems these got added fairly recently to the specs so they don't work in my InDesign
    CS4.\r\n\r\nRemind me to check Apple's Color Emoji font. In some probably undescribable
    way the UC const. got press-ganged in including <em>different variations</em>
    for about the entire set of emoji."
  created: '2012-03-09 20:12:09'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "The only CJK fonts bundled with Mac OS X that include variation sequences
    are some of the Hiragino (Japanese) ones.\r\n\r\nThe Format 14 'cmap' subtable
    was developed by Adobe, which was reviewed by Microsoft. The Unicode Consortium
    had nothing to do with it. They either standardize or register variation sequences.
    Thankfully, the Format 14 'cmap' subtable has become the default and preferred
    way in which to represent variation sequences in OpenType fonts."
  created: '2012-03-09 21:25:02'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Okay, thanks Ken. (Uh. Were you perchance a member of that committee? In
    that case, apologies for my calling it \"weird\". I just can't grasp the idea
    of \"prescribing allowed variations\" -- wouldn't that circumvent the general
    idea of Unicode and rather be a case of glyph design, possibly used with an Opentype
    feature?)\r\n\r\n<cite>One would need standardized or registered variation sequences
    that make sense for the glyph set for that.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt sounds like my version
    of InDesign indeed is hard-coded to recognize a fixed number of variation sequences,
    instead of inspecting the font first and *then* list the ones it finds. Possibly,
    both the Mongolian and Japanese were hardcoded at the time but not (yet) the Math
    ones. As I don't read Japanese and don't have any Mongolian font to test with,
    I can't check any further.\r\n\r\nMy only not-system font with variations is Cambria
    Math, and that only contains the math variations. Check out, for instance, the
    \"serifed' variations for U+2229 \"INTERSECTION\" and U+222A \"UNION\", glyph
    indices 6962 and 6963. Neither of these are available as regular alternates through
    an OpenType feature, which I would have guessed to be the preferable way.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, Apple's Color Emoji also does not contain variations of this particular
    kind."
  created: '2012-03-09 22:06:32'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "AFAIK, variants selected by variation selectors serve a specific meaning
    that need to be encoded into the text, though I think they would have very well
    encoded them as different characters (like, say, the regular and final Greek sigma).
    Also, the variants are indeed hard coded, in the sense that conformant implementations
    should only support sequences registered by Unicode. See http://www.unicode.org/Public/UNIDATA/StandardizedVariants.html.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    if someone is the looking for a free font that implements the math variants, there
    is [[https://github.com/khaledhosny/xits-math|XITS]] (OK, that is blatant self
    promotion)."
  created: '2012-03-09 23:22:06'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "Keep in mind that there is a difference between standardized and registered
    variants. The former are closely tied to the standard. The latter are part of
    a registry that is set up by the standard. The implementation is the same in fonts,
    meaning via the Format 14 'cmap' subtable.\r\n\r\nAbout Apple's Color Emoji font,
    keep in mind that the Standardized Variants for emoji were just accepted into
    the standard during last month's UTC and WG2 meetings. Apple obviously hasn't
    had time to revise their fonts accordingly. The proposal came from Apple.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I am the [[http://www.unicode.org/ivd/|IVD]] Registrar."
  created: '2012-03-10 02:41:21'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I think we can put up with you tooting your XITS horn, @Khaled. Well, I can.
    I've got my cuppa cha, even if it's 'just' CO-OP '99'.
  created: '2012-03-10 13:35:23'
date: '2012-02-23 12:30:44'
title: Extracting font information

---
