---
author:
  name: popovich
  picture: 110254
body: Can anybody please clarify me the thing with font renaming - as in Humanist
  521 and Gill Sans, Swiss 721 and Helvetica, etc.? How come this happened and what
  are the reasons for such misleading renaming? Is it only Bitstream&#39;s &#34;disease&#34;
  or was it popular for some period of time? I just don&#39;t get it...
comments:
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: You can find some information about Bitstream, naming, licenses, etc at <a
    href="http://groups.google.com/groups?hl=pt&amp;lr=&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;group=comp.fonts"
    target="_blank"> comp.fonts</a>. Just search for &#34;Bitstream&#34;. <BR> <BR>Check
    <a href="http://groups.google.com/groups?hl=pt&amp;lr=&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;selm=129%40moria.UUCP"
    target="_blank"> this thread</a>, for example. <BR> <BR>&#40;Thanks to Will.&#41;
  created: '2003-07-28 16:56:39'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: There was some news from TypeCon regarding this. <BR>During a panel presentation,
    Jim Lyles announced <BR>that Bitstream would now pay royalties to Linotype. <BR>
    <BR>The announcement was met with applause from John Downer,  <BR>who was sitting
    across from Lyles. <BR> <BR>However, I don&#39;t know whether any details were
    released. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-28 17:08:00'
- author:
    name: hawk
    picture: 110225
  body: in USA the DESIGN of a TYPEFACE is NOT protected, only its Name. <BR> <BR>in
    Europe &#40;many european countries&#41; the Design of a typeface is protected
    BY Copyright just as much as its Name. <BR> <BR> <BR>David Hamuel
  created: '2003-07-28 17:35:53'
- author:
    name: jcoltz
  body: Drat, I don&#39;t have my copy of Bringhurst with me here at work &#40;why
    do I leave home without it?&#41;, so I&#39;ll go from pure recall.  <BR> <BR>To
    paraphrase big time, Bringhurst says that as the transition from metal and photo
    to digital type got underway, most manufacturers of digital type simply retained
    the names of fonts that existed in previous forms. But Bitstream avoided the fiction
    that these new digital types were the equivalents of their predecessors, and so
    they provided new, and perhaps more systematic, names for them. <BR> <BR>Interestingly,
    then, the spin Bringhurst puts on this is that Bitstream renamed their fonts for
    reasons of scholarship and integrity, rather than out of any other motivation.
    <BR> <BR>Corrections/clarifications most welcome! <BR> <BR>Jon
  created: '2003-07-28 17:59:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Bitstream [now] rules: <BR><a href="http://www.bitstream.com/categories/news/press/2003_bitstream/071803_linotype.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.bitstream.com/categories/news/press/2003_bitstream/071803_linotype.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>But poor Jenson is way too dead to complain about a certain Bitstream
    font... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-28 22:17:16'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: Bitstream renamed their fonts for reasons of scholarship and integrity <BR>
    <BR>Rubbish! The Bitstream founders &#40;Matthew Carter, Cherie Cone, MIke Parker&#41;
    were ex-Linotype. And while rumours were never substantiated that maybe some data
    had found its way onto some hard drives in Cambridge, they had to rename their
    versions of Helvetica, Univers, Times et al because Linotype &#40;and Monotype,
    Berthold etc&#41; wouldn&#39;t license the names to the new competitor. As it
    happens, some of the Bitstream versions of those classics were better than the
    original foundries&#39; who turned out some pretty horrific stuff during the first
    digital phase. I&#39;m talking late 70s here, pre PostScript and LaserWriters.
  created: '2003-08-03 16:10:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Rubbish! <BR> <BR>That&#39;s putting it mildly... <BR> <BR>But the
    good news is that Bitstream is now making an effort to <BR>become a beacon of
    ethics, and to me they seem to be succeeding. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 16:49:08'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'erik spiekermann said <BR> <BR>&#62;Rubbish! ... <BR> <BR> <BR>Quite so.
    There was no &#39;scholarship and integrity&#39; involved, so far as I could ever
    tell. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t know about data use, per se, but otherwise, how does
    a library of several hundred fonts appear seemingly overnight? Or, within several
    months, with 1980-82 technology. &#40;Remember how slow, even at the minicomputer
    and mainframe level? Because the chip makers apparently just couldn&#39;t make
    enough Fritos fast enough to get the boards cheaper and faster?&#41; <BR> <BR>And
    actually, as one goes back in time and really studies a lot of typefaces from
    the early 1900s through phototypesetting, with some exception, the actual form
    of a lot of what was available was truly horrific. <BR> <BR>&#40;Early phototypesetting
    and early digital fonts were even supplied with no kerning. And were at least
    $185. each. Per weight. If a mediocre kerning data add-on was available at all,
    one paid extra.&#41; <BR> <BR>It&#39;s a long-extant bitter irony that it took
    a sudden collection of unlicensed digital clones to start to get the industry
    to get its act together, so far as digitized font quality. &#40;Of course, it
    could have been coincidence.&#41; <BR> <BR>But is that galvanizing effect a reason
    to buy and use unlicensed clones? <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve always believed it subverted
    the entire industry. And institutionalized cloning, making it seem, to the new
    generation of giddy desktop designers and those who sold to them, that it was
    ok to both clone fonts, sell them, and use them. <BR> <BR>Granted, they weren&#39;t
    the first. But the industry, mostly through the work of aTypI, really was trying
    to clean up its act in the late &#39;70s. <BR> <BR>The sale of unlicensed fonts
    to an unwitting public, combined with bundling and discounting, slowed down development
    and release of otherwise worthy new, licensed typefaces, I believe, at a rate
    that would have served the electronic publishing community from the mid-&#39;80s
    and throughout the &#39;90s, much more effectively. <BR> <BR>&#40;Yes, it has
    always been entirely possible to be a well-read progessional in the graphic arts,
    and still unwitting about knockoffs. Even today. Which is why it&#39;s possible
    for clone companies to make inroads, brandishing cost savings.&#41; <BR> <BR>Rhetorically:
    When one talks about faceless, giant, megalithic, uncaring type foundries that
    only look at profiteering at any cost, which one do you think really fits that
    description best? <BR> <BR>While practically every other commercial foundry, large
    or small, has subsequently had to endure that characterization at one time or
    another in the digital world &#40;mostly by people who had no idea what they were
    babbling about&#41;, the characterization is misplaced and unfair, I think. <BR>
    <BR>The crowned prince needs to accept the crown. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 17:05:42'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'By the way, to directly answer Alexey Lysenkov&#39;s original question: <BR>
    <BR>&#62;Can anybody please clarify me the  <BR>&#62;thing with font renaming
    - as in  <BR>&#62;Humanist 521 and Gill Sans, Swiss 721 and <BR>&#62;Helvetica,
    etc.? How come this happened and  <BR>&#62;what are the reasons for such misleading  <BR>&#62;renaming?
    Is it only Bitstream&#39;s &#34;disease&#34;  <BR>&#62;or was it popular for some
    period of time?  <BR>&#62;I just don&#39;t get it... <BR> <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t worry,
    it&#39;s no industry standard.  <BR> <BR>So far as I can tell from following it
    over the years, it has never been a universally popular naming convention. Or
    universally accepted as anything other than a marketing approach reaching toward
    a cache of seeming exclusivity. <BR> <BR>But it has been very confusing, historically,
    since it first appeared to the graphic arts public about 1982 or so. <BR> <BR>Because
    that kind of marketing approach leads to the need &#40;many industry experts have
    historically believed&#41; for cross-reference tables &#40;&#34;Industry names
    versus &#39;our name&#39;&#34;&#41;, it can become terribly time consuming and
    frustrating for the average graphic designer, production manager, and prepress
    house to both make a type choice and be sure that you have, indeed, made the correct
    choice. <BR> <BR>And so it also becomes a way of getting one to have to rely on
    outside consultants &#40;even an otherwise unnecessary phone call to the vendor&#41;
    for even basic FAQ kinds of questions. <BR> <BR>Whether the generic is the same
    or as good as or better than the brand name is a vexing enough question for frozen
    peas. It&#39;s even more confusing for typefaces. <BR> <BR>And the availiability,
    then, of cross-reference tables serves to literally take bread out of the mouths
    of licensing designers, and those managers and employees at foundries who try
    to go the licensed route because they believe it is the moral high ground. <BR>
    <BR>Overall, the naming scheme was Bitstream&#39;s marrying up of standard classification
    names to what are essentially randomly selected job lot numbers, to create what
    appeared to be authentic and believable names. <BR> <BR>Other foundries, such
    as Monotype, have used numbers in many of their type family names previously.
    To signify specific, and often, original works. <BR> <BR>But I believe that Bitstream&#39;s
    use of numbering after standard classification names, was the first time that
    was done in that particular way. <BR> <BR>Helpful as an approach? <BR> <BR>&#40;If
    anyone knows of an earlier such model, I&#39;d love to know about it.&#41; <BR>
    <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 17:58:54'
- author:
    name: jcoltz
  body: 'To be fair to all, but especially to Robert Bringhurst, here is the passage
    I paraphrased earlier &#40;<i>The Elements of Typographic Style</i>, version 2.5,
    pp 202-203&#41;: <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 19:01:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I am simply too naive <BR> <BR>Jon, I think that happens to most any
    &#34;outsider&#34;, like you or me. Since it was totally our choice to jump in
    &#40;as opposed to it being largely circumstantial&#41;, we like to believe that
    our &#34;adopted&#34; hobby/vocation is full of brave, honest people... but type
    design is just like any other field: it has its good, bad, and just plain ugly.
    The hardest thing to overcome for me has been the illusion than anybody who makes
    nice fonts &#40;even original ones&#41; <i>must</i> be a good person. Sadly, that
    happens to be totally untrue. So watch your back. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Just to
    put Bitstream &#40;past and present&#41; in perspective: <BR> <BR>On the ATypI
    list Jan Middendorp recently wrote: &#34;Ca. 1860, the &#39;gentleman&#39; of
    the respected typefoundry Enschede  stopped paying for new typefaces to be cut,
    because it was cheaper to copy other firms&#39; designs by means of electrotyping.&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t be shocked that humans are human. Give them a chance to correct
    their actions, and sometimes, like in the case of Bitstream, it&#39;ll work out,
    setting a stellar example. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 21:08:42'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Jon Coltz said <BR> <BR>&#62;If so, I&#39;d certainly like to hear their  <BR>&#62;side
    of the story. This sort of thing could  <BR>&#62;leave one quite disillusioned;
    but then  <BR>&#62;perhaps I am simply too naive. <BR> <BR> <BR>Well, I for one,
    would like to hear the real origin story, too. Unfortunately, all I can do is
    generally surmise, following it at the time, and since. And looking at the number
    of fonts and chronology. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve been living with the disillusionment
    of what it caused the market, since 1982-84. Not that I dwell on it; I&#39;m just
    aware of the impact. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t at all mind saying that Bringhurst,
    in the quotation you cite and for whatever reason, is being too kind. Or, perhaps,
    reporting from press releases accurately, but leaving an impression that can be
    mightily misconstrued by the uninformed reader.  <BR> <BR>For example: Is it a
    positive service to the market to both clone and create more cross-lookup work
    and the anxiety that goes with it, for the average type specifier? <BR> <BR>Hrant
    added <BR> <BR>&#62;On the ATypI list Jan Middendorp  <BR>&#62;recently wrote:
    &#34;Ca. 1860, the  <BR>&#62;&#39;gentleman&#39; of the respected typefoundry  <BR>&#62;Enschede
    stopped paying for new typefaces  <BR>&#62;to be cut, because it was cheaper to
    copy  <BR>&#62;other firms&#39; designs by means of electrotyping.&#34; <BR> <BR>
    <BR>Yes, that&#39;s well documented and numerous others afterward followed a similar
    path.  <BR> <BR>But as I said, from sitting in on some of the aTypI meetings,
    by the 1970s, the offenders were either trying themselves to change.  <BR> <BR>Or,
    aTypI was nudging them not so gently toward cleaning up their act, for the benefit
    of all involved on both sides of the sale equation. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-04 00:53:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: So Joe, you stopped following ATypI when you started designing type? <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-04 02:05:42'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Hrant said <BR> <BR>&#62;So Joe, you stopped following ATypI  <BR>&#62;when
    you started designing type? <BR> <BR> <BR>Nope.  <BR> <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-04 04:16:19'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'A clarification/correction: <BR> <BR>I went back to a Bitstream catalog copyright
    1988, and here is what they said about their typefaces and classification system.
    <BR> <BR>&#40;From &#39;The Bitstream Typeface Library&#39;, '
  created: '2003-08-04 05:50:22'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'By the way, several other things that seems worth adding: <BR> <BR>I have
    a tremendous amount of respect for the creative principals at the company, for
    the technological achievements that they made, in association with the computer
    company Camex. <BR> <BR>And of course, even though I&#39;m professionally curious
    about why those tremendously creative people made the decisions they did after
    leaving Linotype, it&#39;s quite literally none of my business. <BR> <BR>Also:
    <BR> <BR>Looking up something else, I stumbled back  into pictures inside Bitstream,
    and a discussion about it and the development of their typefaces, by the writer/consultant
    &#40;and very nice person&#41; Wendy Richmond.  <BR> <BR>It appeared in Communication
    Arts, May/June 1984, Issue #168, pp. 78, 80-81. <BR> <BR>The author states that
    they find that with the Camex equipment &#40;by Camex, Inc.&#41;, production gets
    up to a &#34;rapid average production rate of 20 minutes per character&#34;, with
    &#34;120 characters&#34; per font being created for commercial sale. <BR> <BR>There
    are full color photo close-ups of the workstation screens, and most fascinating,
    a fairly large full color photo with the some you might recognize, examining proofs.
    There appear to be four Camex workstations in the background. <BR> <BR>&#40;Copyright
    1984, Coyne &amp; Blanchard, Inc.&#41; <BR> <BR>This was fascinating when the
    story first broke, and still is. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-04 18:11:45'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: 'A few more observations re Bitstream: <BR>they certainly didn&#39;t have
    licenses from Linotype, thus the new naming system. It may make sense, but it
    was mainly a way of getting over the licensing issue. In the early 90s, Linotype&#39;s
    lawyer made us remove the Bitstream cross-referencing to the &#34;industry names&#34;
    as they called it, as that was seen as an infringement on Linotype&#39;s rights
    to these names. <BR> <BR>On the other hand it has to pointed out that back in
    those days, fonts were tied to typesetting equipment. You couldn&#39;t get the
    original Helvetica unless you had a Linotype machine. There was some cross-licensing
    with Berthold, who got Optima, Palatino; Univers, Frutiger, Helvetica and some
    others in exchange for Akzidenz Grotesk, Concorde et al. BItstream were the first
    people to sell device-independent digital fonts, as ITC had been the first people
    to sell artwork to any manufacturer who paid for it and then had to make their
    own fonts from ITC&#39;s drawings. That&#39;s why ITC fonts looked very different,
    depending who had made the font, analog or early &#40;ie pre-PostScript&#41; digital.
    <BR> <BR>Yes, Wendy Richmond was and is a very nice &#40;and knowledgable&#41;
    person: She was with Camex at the time, one of Bitstream&#39;s first &#40;if not
    the first&#41; licensees.'
  created: '2003-08-04 23:40:10'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'erik spiekermann said <BR> <BR>&#62;Yes, Wendy Richmond was and is a very
    nice  <BR>&#62;&#40;and knowledgable&#41; person: She was with  <BR>&#62;Camex
    at the time, one of Bitstream&#39;s first  <BR>&#62;&#40;if not the first&#41;
    licensees. <BR> <BR> <BR>You&#39;re quite right. Knowledgable, indeed. <BR> <BR>I
    wasn&#39;t aware that she was with Camex itself. Thanks for that tidbit, Erik.
    <BR> <BR>I think by the time I first talked with her &#40;probably 1988-89&#41;,
    she was an independent industry observer/writer. And talented at that.&#41;  <BR>
    <BR>&#40;I seem to recall reading that Camex mostly made medical imaging equipment.
    I could be entirely wrong about that. I went to Camex.com just now, but I see
    some speculator now has camex.com for sale!&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;That&#39;s
    why ITC fonts looked very different,  <BR>&#62;depending who had made the font,
    analog or  <BR>&#62;early &#40;ie pre-PostScript&#41; digital. <BR> <BR> <BR>Meaning,
    the manufacturer&#39;s actual conversion of it to their system. The artwork had
    to vary, depending upon what their imaging system could literally handle, eh?
    <BR> <BR>In a worst-case scenario &#40;unfortunately, typical&#41;: <BR> <BR>Can
    you say &#39;over-sharpened crotch&#39;? I&#39;ll bet that you can.... <BR> <BR>&#40;Picture
    a nice, soft &#39;n fluffy ITC Souvenir Bold &#39;A&#39; with that treatment on
    the inside of the apex. Like the treatment inside the Linotype design &#39;Bell
    Centennial-Bold Listing&#39;. Except that you&#39;re not supposed to notice it.
    Except that...you do! Now, all around the crossbar. Ouch. Ouch. Ouch. Ouch. Picture
    Eastern Souvenir with it. Aiiieeee! At that point, if such a specimen were an
    instrument of torture - which, of course, it was, visually - I&#39;d be confessing
    to anything just to get it to stop.&#41; <BR> <BR>It&#39;s a curious thing, though,
    all the very different shapings of certain characters in ITC Garamond Condensed.
    Like &#39;e&#39;, in Light Cond. <BR> <BR>Different art for one display size master,
    and one text size master, right? As well as then each foundry&#39;s creative staff
    tweaking it if they saw fit to? <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62; In the early 90s, Linotype&#39;s
    lawyer  <BR>&#62;made us remove the Bitstream cross-referencing  <BR>&#62;to the
    &#34;industry names&#34; as they called it... <BR> <BR> <BR>I recall that, now
    that you mention it. Ouch, expensive ouch. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 02:03:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; .... over-sharpened crotch .... <BR> <BR>Oh, no - not another one.
    Well, I guess the demographic is consistent. <BR> <BR>For every year of infatuation
    with obese disco drag queens, it would take another year of lucid explanation
    to restore good sense concerning trapping - and I don&#39;t even have 3 years,
    much less 30, to waste. <BR> <BR>But it doesn&#39;t take much to just include
    some links: <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12286.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12286.html</a> <BR><a
    href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12498.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12498.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Picture a nice, soft &#39;n fluffy ITC Souvenir Bold &#39;A&#39;
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;m seeing Elvis in his later years. I think my dinner is coming
    back up. <BR> <BR>&#62; Except that you&#39;re not supposed to notice it. <BR>
    <BR>And the people who matter &#40;readers, not &#34;artiste&#34; type designers&#41;
    don&#39;t. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 05:31:33'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Hrant said <BR> <BR>&#62;And the people who matter  <BR>&#62;&#40;readers,
    not &#34;artiste&#34; type designers&#41; don&#39;t. <BR> <BR> <BR>If you&#39;re
    comfortable believing that, well, good for you, then. <BR> <BR>Thankfully, that
    oversharpening technique was able to die quietly once imaging technology got better.  <BR>
    <BR>The &#39;&#34;artiste&#34; type designers&#39; no longer needed to be dictated
    to by the technicians. Who were, of course, primarily concerned with just getting
    their systems to image successfully at all at the extremes &#40;towards lighter
    hairlines, towards joins of fairly thick stems&#41;, not overall esthetics. <BR>
    <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;But it doesn&#39;t take much to just include  <BR>&#62;some
    links:  <BR>&#62;<a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12286.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12286.html</a> <BR>
    <BR>I don&#39;t try to fashion a living out of posting to listservs, so I hadn&#39;t
    seen the thread earlier. <BR> <BR>Now here&#39;s a curiosity:  <BR> <BR>On Monday,
    June 23, 2003 - 11:08 pm, I see from one of those links, that you posted: <BR>
    <BR>&#62;The true capitalists don&#39;t post to Typophile.  <BR> <BR>&#62;hhp
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Thank goodness that frees me from the noose of raving capitalist
    that I found myself being forced into modeling, earlier on. Thanks for the link.
    &#40;Whew! Now, I can go back to simply raving.&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>And
    it seems to me that Mr Giampa&#39;s post regarding <BR>&#62;<a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Pascal60.jpg"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Pascal60.jpg</a> <BR>on Wednesday,
    June 25, 2003 - 12:53 am was exactly correct. <BR> <BR>The oversharpening I happened
    to be referring to, done in the early phototypesetting mastering days &#40;read:
    late 1970s, not circa 1960s metal&#41;, was much more pronounced. Much uglier,
    so as to actually trump whatever other ugliness some might read into &#40;what
    is actually a lovely construction&#41; in something like ITC&#39;s resurrection
    of ATF Souvenir from the early 20th century. <BR> <BR>Besides, in the case of
    &#39;Pascal&#39;, Mr Mendoza y Almeida did a tremendous, very sensitive job of
    acknowledging - in the case of his drawing&#39;s &#40;and, in the cutting&#39;s&#41;
    apparently anticipating Tetterode&#39;s imaging capabilities, and their customers&#39;
    reproduction limits - the need to hold open those areas slightly, while trying
    to incorporate the subtle sharpening as a welcome design trait. <BR> <BR>On the
    other hand, its Q, 3, 8 and eszett are kind of unfortunate, in my opinion. Otherwise,
    Stella, stellar! <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t you be dissin&#39; my Mendoza y Almeida.  ;-&#41;
    <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>Moreover, thank goodness for &#39;&#34;artiste&#34; type designers&#39;,
    whoever they are, and whatever parts of visual communications they work in. Without
    them, there&#39;s be no one to annoy the number crunchers. <BR> <BR>We couldn&#39;t
    abide that now, could we? <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>PS - I also noted, farther down in
    that thread you mentioned: <BR>&#62;Long live Agfa. It&#39;s a damn shame they  <BR>&#62;don&#39;t
    make scanners any more. I just wish  <BR>&#62;I&#39;d gotten one of their higher-end
    ones  <BR>&#62;&#40;1200 dpi&#41; before they stopped. <BR> <BR> <BR>You can have
    mine; the Arcus II. It had terrific software, FotoLook. Really great. <BR> <BR>One
    day, the scanner just abruptly stopped looking. They wanted &#40;literally&#41;
    US$700. just to look at it. <BR> <BR>I was lost, because I really had enjoyed
    using it. <BR> <BR>Then, I decided to go to CompUSA and see what else was out
    there. Bought a Umax 1220S. I was pleasantly surprised to find that both software
    and hardware were/are actually much better! <BR> <BR>Let&#39;s hear it for power
    supply failures! Hooray! <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 13:02:17'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Hrant mentioned <BR> <BR>&#62;Well, I guess the demographic is consistent.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Which demographic was that?  <BR> <BR>&#40;Read: Are you profiling
    again, officer?&#41; <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 13:12:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; that oversharpening technique was able to die quietly <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    sorry to be the one to update you on current reality again, but you should know
    that trapping has been making a strong comeback in the last few years. The reason
    it was ignored at the beginning of digital technology is simply that people had
    some basic new problems to tackle, but now that they have, they can start refining
    their designs once again. <BR> <BR>And the <i>quantity</i> of trapping is not
    the issue, obviously. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; The true capitalists don&#39;t post
    to Typophile. <BR> <BR>That was indeed a bit off: I had failed to account for
    those who use public spaces to advertise their wares. <BR> <BR>&#62; Tetterode&#39;s
    imaging capabilities <BR> <BR>Metal type?! <BR> <BR>Anyway, I suggest you post
    any messages dealing with that stuff to the appropriate threads. <BR> <BR>-- <BR>
    <BR>Demographic: middle-aged white American male. It must&#39;ve been something
    in the air while they were growing up, but they generally: salivate over obese
    disco fonts; refuse to admit the relevance -sometimes even the existence- of trapping;
    can&#39;t stand me. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 16:19:15'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Hrant said <BR> <BR>&#62;The reason it was ignored at the  <BR>&#62;beginning
    of digital technology is  <BR>&#62;simply that people had some basic new  <BR>&#62;problems
    to tackle, but now that they  <BR>&#62;have, they can start refining their  <BR>&#62;designs
    once again. <BR> <BR> <BR>Well, that&#39;s a new perspective on it, I suppose.  <BR>
    <BR>Did you hear that, designers? We can all start refining our designs once again.
    Hooray! <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;I had failed to account for those  <BR>&#62;who
    use public spaces to advertise their wares. <BR> <BR> <BR>My statements on listservs
    support my view within a discussion, and nothing more.  <BR> <BR>On the other
    hand, if a list &#40;any list&#41; subscriber asks specifically for help or suggestions,
    I&#39;ll offer specific advice. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Anyway, I suggest you
    post any messages  <BR>&#62;dealing with that stuff to the appropriate <BR>&#62;threads.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Thank you, God.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m sorry; I wasn&#39;t aware that
    you ran Typophile. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve now just once again checked the table of
    Moderators, and did not see your name. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-08 05:15:43'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Joe, <BR> <BR>Are you thinking what I&#39;m thinking? So is everybody else!
    <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa
  created: '2003-08-08 20:18:48'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Hrant,  <BR> <BR>The ugly American says this. <BR> <BR>&#34;Demographic:
    &#39;middle&#39;-aged &#39;white&#39; American &#39;male&#39;. It must&#39;ve
    been something in the air while they were growing up, but they generally: salivate
    over obese disco fonts; refuse to admit the relevance -sometimes even the existence-
    of trapping; can&#39;t stand me. <BR> <BR>Typophiles. <BR>  <BR>Discrimination
    against age and American men is as repugnant as discrimination against women,
    or blacks. Remember that discrimination is an on going work in progress. <BR>
    <BR>Get the picture! <BR> <BR>Please pay attention to my insertion of the quote
    within Hrant'
  created: '2003-08-09 08:17:57'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Typophiles, <BR> <BR> <BR>Discrimination is endemic with this member! In
    Canada there is a law against age discrimination. <BR> <BR>Note: &#34;middle-aged&#34;.
    <BR> <BR>I trust you will do the right thing. <BR> <BR>Once again, <BR> <BR>Gerald
    Giampa'
  created: '2003-08-09 08:43:55'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Hey guys <BR> <BR>Knock it off. That, or sign yourselves in at the nearest
    asylum. <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-08-10 06:02:23'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Gerald, <BR> <BR>Read Jo Treacy&#39;s post. <BR> <BR>And it seems to me that
    Mr Giampa&#39;s post regarding  <BR> &#62;<a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Pascal60.jpg"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Pascal60.jpg</a>  <BR>on
    Wednesday, June 25, 2003 - 12:53 am was exactly correct. <BR> <BR>Who&#39;s the
    crazy one? <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa '
  created: '2003-08-10 06:41:58'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Is anyone else like, completely and utterly lost right now?
  created: '2003-08-10 06:58:59'
date: '2003-07-28 16:38:39'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through August 09, 2003

---
