---
author:
  name: dightondesign
  picture: 124308
body: "Seeking creative ideas for a typographic poster series. A local church wants
  to display positive messages in poster format around it's large auditorium.\r\n\r\nThey
  desire a strong typographic approach, not a graphic, picture or scene.\r\n\r\nThis
  would be one of the poster series/themes:\r\nLearn Together\r\nServe Together\r\nLove
  Together\r\nWorship Together\r\n_______________\r\n\r\nAny ideas?"
comments:
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "You could license the below typeface from The Colour Grey.\r\nWhat you get
    is 2 fonts that when combined create an overprint sans.\r\nIt's a conceptual fit.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.thecolourgrey.com/sodabudi.html"
  created: '2012-02-24 22:19:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice suggestion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-24 23:58:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It is a nice idea, but a bit too conceptual for the job at hand.\r\nLooks
    like mis-registration, or Get Drunk Together."
  created: '2012-02-25 02:45:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, what about this:\r\n\r\n- You make crosses with each pair of words.\r\n-
    For the first two you use the \"e\" as a pivot; for the\r\nthird and fourth you
    use the \"o\". And you can make\r\nthe last one special by flipping its directionality.\r\n-
    You can make free-form crosses by using normally-\r\nproportioned letterforms;
    or you might actually be\r\nable to pull off traditionally-proportioned crosses\r\nby
    -very judiciously- distorting the letters.\r\n\r\nWould that be awesome, or would
    that be awesome?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-25 03:04:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "That overprint font is interesting but not what I'd chose for this project.
    Reminds me of this conference logo:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/offset_4919.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
    size will the posters be and how will they be printed? \r\n\r\n>not a graphic,
    picture or scene\r\n\r\nBut even though the type is the focal point, you might
    consider subdued background images behind the headlines, such as soft focus images
    that relate to the topic. "
  created: '2012-02-25 03:27:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Evan_4535.png]\r\nThe monograms of the
    four evangelists, by Rudolf Koch, suggests monogramming Learn Serve Love Worship.\r\nYou\u2019d
    have to figure out how to fit in Together.\r\nAnother Love, better known:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/F19932FB-C4F4-4D7C-B340-270761B708AE_o_4603.jpg]"
  created: '2012-02-25 03:59:37'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/together_sllw_3544.jpg]'
  created: '2012-02-25 05:25:19'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/together_sllw_2_4143.jpg]'
  created: '2012-02-25 06:27:56'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: '...but I still haven''t found what I''m looking for.'
  created: '2012-02-25 06:38:33'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "One approach could be a stained-glass look. \r\n\r\nOn most church windows
    I've seen the words are painted on the glass, but if it's just a word or two the
    words are sometimes constructed from pieces of glass.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/faith_3572.jpg]"
  created: '2012-02-25 07:03:46'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: "These are some really great ideas. I am so grateful for your input. Here
    are my notes:\r\n\r\ntmac: About the typeface The Colour Grey\u2026I love the
    idea of the combined fonts to create an overprint.  I will investigate some thing
    like that, but as Nick Shinn said, it might be too conceptual. Thanks for your
    input.\r\n\r\ngrant: Crosses would seem to work for each pair of words since the
    same word \"together\" is used.  I am not sure if I want to use crosses though.
    \ I would like to avoid stereotypical symbols.  The idea of the posters is to
    inspire, I think through clever letter treatment and arrangements this could be
    achieved\u2026but you are on the right track.  I love the idea of tilting some
    of the vowels, though. Thanks for your input.\r\n\r\nJamesM: Good question about
    the poster sizes\u2026I did neglect to mention that. I am still researching who
    will print these, because the church is on a limited budget I was thinking banner
    sizes maybe from Vistaprint: http://www.vistaprint.com/custom-banners.aspx?txi=154&xnid=LeftNav154_153_131&xnav=LeftItem.
    The sizes are: 3' x 1.6', 4' x 2.5', 6' x 2.5', 8' x 2.5'.  Poster sizes are too
    small: http://www.vistaprint.com/posters/product-page.aspx?txi=157&xnid=LeftNav157_153_131&xnav=LeftItem.
    About the graphic, picture or scene\u2026I agree something would add interest
    and support the message.  I am not sure yet what to do with regards to non-type
    options. Stained glass \"nod\" might be a clever way to tie the poster series
    together. Thanks for your input.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn: Great suggestions of monogram
    type stuff\u2026which might work well for this series of posters\u2026but some
    other ones might not work because there are more words to fit into the design.
    Now you have given me some great material for researching further, Thanks for
    your input.\r\n\r\n5star: I love that you used together once\u2026and the subtle
    smile in one circle is clever.  I am not sure the splatter paint works, but I
    can see where you are going. Thanks for your input.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-25 14:36:08'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Poster_concepts_4048.jpg]\r\nThe idea
    behind the poster is to inspire or encourage or \"define\" the value of community
    but NOT be too religious. Here are two examples of words they like a lot that
    they feel convey this message. The size of the posters will most likely be like
    this, too....6' x 2.5' Vertical.  Hope this helps explain what I am seeking.  :)"
  created: '2012-02-25 14:58:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I was thinking quite subtly in terms of crosses.\r\nIn fact the crossing
    of the words could allude\r\nto the word \"together\".\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crossing_4105.gif]\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I don't get the wording in the second poster.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-25 15:15:07'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: 'hrant: I am not sure what the poster for the second one means either. I think
    he is trying to convey that how people live outside of the church is reflected
    inside the church. For example...if one practices kindness outside it will reflect
    kindness inside. The "kingdom" can be a confusing idea and it simply means "Godly
    living". About the cross...I get it. I love the idea of words crossing one another..merging
    together...if they could come up with other words to convey the same idea..this
    poster has potential.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/edgewood_posterseriesC_5498.jpg]'
  created: '2012-02-25 16:28:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool!\r\nBTW, the choice of font will greatly\r\ndetermine the effectiveness
    of this.\r\nNot necessarily something as juicy\r\nas what I used above, but a
    font with\r\nletters that fit in boxes might work best.\r\nLike: http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/panoptica/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-25 16:53:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Thanks for the additional info. Your layout \"A\" showing all 4 phrases on
    one poster is different than I expected; I thought it would be a series of posters
    and each would contain 1 phrase.\r\n\r\nIt might be stronger to have one phrase
    per poster, so one is focused on love, one on service, etc.\r\n\r\nRegarding VistaPrint,
    I've used them for some low-budget projects. They are focused on doing things
    quickly and cheaply; you aren't going to get top quality. But the things they've
    printed for me came out okay considering the price. When you're ready I'd suggest
    having them print just one first so  you make make sure the quality is good enough
    before they print all of them."
  created: '2012-02-25 17:02:39'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: "hrant: I agree about better font choices...these are here for a visual understanding
    of the concept. Thanks for your input.\r\n\r\nJamesM: I very well might consider
    a local printer for this where I can feel and touch the paper. I used one in Providence
    for class poster designs. I loved how they came out. I am hoping the church will
    allow a good budget for this. They trust my judgement here on resources and paper
    quality. Containing one phrase might make it interesting...and more focused.  I
    will consider that, too. Thanks for your input.\r\n\r\nI will post the development
    here, if you'd like to watch....it is where I will show them to get their input
    as well: http://www.dightondesign.com/PosterSeries.htm"
  created: '2012-02-25 18:02:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SMC-IThirst_1960_b_4295.jpg]\r\n\r\nDo
    you know Sister Corita Kent? She is one of my favourite artists. There\u2019s
    so much life in her works -- as opposed to the polished corporate stuff that churches
    normally try to emulate."
  created: '2012-02-25 20:03:56'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Those are beautiful, Nick.
  created: '2012-02-25 20:16:43'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: 'frode frank: Like it!!!'
  created: '2012-02-25 21:05:22'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.google.ca/search?hl=en&gs_nf=1&cp=9&gs_id=1h&xhr=t&q=sister+corita&gs_upl=&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.,cf.osb&biw=1280&bih=885&um=1&ie=UTF-8&tbm=isch&source=og&sa=N&tab=wi&ei=UH1JT5_IDIWn0AGRwKTZAQ\">
    Sister Corita </a> is by far the most influential graphic artist on my stuff.\r\n\r\nFran,
    don't go lame. If there's one thing to learn from Sister Corita and that is to
    keep it fresh, lively, work with no boundaries! Don't be afraid to take chances.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-26 00:43:33'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/008-St-John_4456.jpg]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.pentagram.com/work/#/posters/all/newest/645/|Posters
    for the Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine]]  by Pentagram"
  created: '2012-02-26 01:04:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry, but: Jeezus.\r\nAnd I bet they got paid $200K for that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-26 01:12:45'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I\u2019m with Hrant on the last one.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jzs_6226.jpg]"
  created: '2012-02-26 10:10:08'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Jesus H. Christ on a sailboard! That poster is so slick and lifeless that
    Hrant just gotta be right about the pay grade!\r\n\r\nOff the top of my head:\r\n1.
    Make 'together' into a sun disc with the other words as rays.\r\n2. Make 'together'
    multicoloured or rainbowy. Cluster the other words around with 'learn'in blue,
    'serve' in green, 'love' in yellow and 'pray' in red. Bonus points if you can
    locate the inspiration.\r\n3. Put 'learn/love' and 'serve/pray' together as eyes
    with 'together' as the mouth of a smiley.\r\n4. Clarendon exists for a reason."
  created: '2012-02-26 15:15:13'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Good lord (pun intended). Seriously folks, if you were a teacher, and a student
    asked for help without at least showing you a few thumbnails, would you go ahead
    and do their literature review for them, and then hand them half a dozen mockups
    to work with?\r\n\r\nIn pedagogy, we refer to this as the \u201Cspoon-feeding\u201D
    method of teaching, which ultimately cripples the student\u2019s ability for independent
    thought.\r\n\r\nJust go to http://typophile.com/tracker and see this pattern for
    yourself.\r\n\r\nPerhaps we should change the name of this site to www.ifyouareatypographystudentjustcomehereandabunchoftypographerswilldoyourhomeworkforyou.com\r\n\r\nhttp://bit.ly/wbH6lJ\r\n\r\n*sigh*"
  created: '2012-02-26 15:55:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love teaching, but it's not everything.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-26 15:59:53'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Ahh... Mister Dean. Welcome to The Machine.\r\nLet us listen to your neigh
    while we brainstorm away."
  created: '2012-02-26 16:27:50'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: "5star: I'd like to keep it fresh, lively, and with no boundaries.  I am just
    exploring right now and really appreciating the input. I volunteered to do this
    for the church and was hoping for some good ideas to consider. Thanks for your
    input.\r\n\r\nT\xE9 Rowan: Thanks for the suggestions. The'together sun disc with
    the other words as rays could be interesting. The 'together' multicolour with
    a cluster of other words around it could be interesting, too. Even though I like
    a smiley face, I am afraid that might be overdone. Clarendon could be a good font
    to use. Thanks for your input.\r\n\r\nChristopher Dean: I see these concepts as
    the beginning of ideas. I am interested where they will go if I take them further.
    This truly is a brainstorming session for me...no idea is wrong and could lead
    in surprising directions.  What I am aiming for is a funnel of ideas that I can
    build on. I would welcome your ideas, too."
  created: '2012-02-27 13:16:44'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "You might be interested in this piece in the New Yorker: <a href=\"http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2012/01/30/120130fa_fact_lehrer\">Brainstorming
    Doesn\u2019t Really Work</a>, by Joshua Lehrer."
  created: '2012-02-27 13:22:43'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: "frode frank: Great article. Thanks for sharing. \r\n\r\nMy aim is that by
    us brainstorming yet knowing that debating or criticizing the concepts presented
    is a part of this process. I promise, by asking for input does not mean that I
    shut my brain off and cease to think creatively. \r\n\r\nI am a freelance designer
    that often is paid to do business collateral material\u2026 however with this
    project I embraced the opportunity (for no charge to the church for the design)
    with the hopes that other fellow designers could help me.  I found once I graduated,
    the open criticism of work went away... unless they were signing the check...Ha!
    I really missed that. I had the benefit of local, fellow collaborators. \r\n\r\nI
    see this forum as the first layer of predictability, ie. green for grass and blue
    for ocean. Errant answers are okay with me if they get me to think outside the
    box\u2026to be \"fresh, lively, work with no boundaries!\"  I am willing to offer
    criticism and we, here, should accept it. \r\n\r\nA great example of how criticism
    improves art is Stephen Sondheim's criticism of this student: http://youtu.be/8-VXXZLh2a0
    or these students: http://youtu.be/DBCVaFqGJwg. I love his subtle suggestions
    and the difference it makes in the end result. \r\n\r\nLet's make this forum \"Seeking
    creative ideas for a typographic poster series\" a creative space string; the
    Building 20 of Typophile where we mix and mingle ideas. I am hoping that here
    you all can extract the best from me for this project. You have already been helpful."
  created: '2012-02-27 14:56:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@dightondesign: I would begin by complementing you on your use of visual
    rhetoric in your first attempt (grey & sans) ie: many different things coming
    together to make a whole, unity &c. I would then ask you you explain your reasoning
    behind:\r\n\r\na) the choice of colour\r\nb) the choice of font\r\nc) the choice
    of dimensions\r\n\r\nLastly, I say \u201COK, that\u2019s one idea, now put it
    aside and do a 180\xB0.\u201D Too often I see students get stuck on a single concept
    and push it around for days. You\u2019re done with this one. Stop, and come up
    with another. Do this 100 times. In one day. On paper."
  created: '2012-02-27 15:10:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Frode, thanks a lot for the link to that very interesting article. It strongly
    supports group interaction, and gives very interesting conditions under which
    they work. \r\n\r\nI think the article's criticism of the original 'Brainstorming'
    idea is somewhat off the mark, though. That is because, contrary to what he says,
    it doesn't prevent criticism. It just separates the brainstorming and criticism
    phases. So the tests he cites don't really critique the original idea, at least
    as he reports them. \r\n\r\nThe specific test he reports in which separated individuals
    did better is what I would call a 'puzzle' rather than a problem. It has very
    limited, well defined boundaries and solution. To me brainstorming is most important
    when the situation is more unclear and fluid and needs conceptual definition.
    \r\n\r\nI think it is also possible that in art, having an individual's vision
    guiding the process, with others' critical input in many cases is better than
    a strictly group process. The whole question what group process is best for what
    kind of problem is really interesting, to me at any rate. \r\n\r\nOn Fran's brief,
    the main thing I would urge is to look for a custom lettering solution rather
    than a type solution. The Rudolph Koch work has a totally different feel from
    the Sister Corita work, but what they have in common is that they are custom lettering\u2014and
    wonderful.  "
  created: '2012-02-27 15:12:15'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: "William Berkson: Custom lettering solution is an excellent choice and will
    require some thought. Thanks for your input.\r\n\r\nChristopher Dean: Excellent
    questions. The grey and sans are only visual aids for demonstrating my desire
    for ideas.  Not even near the final result.  The choice of dimensions is simply
    because the auditorium they will be in has some long narrow blank walls they wish
    to fill with some simple, yet thought-provoking posters. I will think on this
    and present some more visuals...maybe even hand sketches. Thanks for your input."
  created: '2012-02-27 15:56:42'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: Oh, do not think of these as church posters, think of them as art...letter
    art...that will just happen to be in a church building. They could be scaled down
    to a small frame or blown up on a billboard. The words will convey the message
    but so must the design. This is my challenge.  More explanation to come.
  created: '2012-02-27 16:54:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Fran, I should have added that an alternative is to go with one or more of
    the recent script fonts that have succeeded in getting the feeling of the hand
    in them. That won''t be as ideal as a custom job, but it can still be very good.  '
  created: '2012-02-27 17:05:52'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: 'William Berkson: Will do...thanks.'
  created: '2012-02-27 17:35:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Brainstorming rules... as long as it's not 100% free-form.\r\nYou need a
    very soft-touch manager in charge. I'll always\r\nfondly remember a particular
    three-day highly immersive\r\nbrainstorming at Microsoft (we were working towards
    a\r\ndeveloper's kit for Surface); I was moved to spill out so\r\nmany killer
    ideas, partly in response to those of others,\r\nmany of which can surely be used
    in future endeavors.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-27 18:00:43'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: 'Posted some more concepts: http://www.dightondesign.com/PosterSeries.htm.
    Still have 90 more to go!! Ha!'
  created: '2012-03-01 16:10:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'My input: please don''t use "impact" as a(n intransitive) verb!'
  created: '2012-03-01 16:16:56'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: 'eliason: Thanks, "impact" is just a filler word...maybe "effect" would be
    better.'
  created: '2012-03-01 18:34:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That would be \"affect\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-01 18:51:04'
- author:
    name: dightondesign
    picture: 124308
  body: "hrant: Either could work, effect \u201Cto create\u201D (become effective)
    or affect \u201Chave an influence on\u201D. Thanks for the input. "
  created: '2012-03-02 19:56:09'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Dwight Yoakam - Let's Work Together \r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fSVWWwaq-Gc&feature=related\r\n\r\n...might
    as well add some tunes."
  created: '2012-03-03 08:35:39'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/together_lwsg_5022.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis is
    just a quicky, but I think it could really be slammin'. The line/rays should be
    done gestural almost finger paint, and the letter shapes could be done more expressively
    too. I'll revisit it later on forsure. \r\n\r\n...I still haven't found what I'm
    looking for."
  created: '2012-03-04 05:45:39'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "...just finished some ruffs with vertical text in the rays, lookin' good
    too. \r\n\r\nAnother groove would be white text on sky blue, cut that out with
    scissors and spread the piece out on a yellow paper to form the rays in negative
    space to excite the whole thing - or something like that - shoot it, print it. "
  created: '2012-03-04 07:22:13'
date: '2012-02-24 20:41:54'
title: Seeking creative ideas for a typographic poster series

---
