---
author:
  name: stephen_k
body: "Adobe Opentype Univers has some dodgy Ligatures when set to metrics \u2013
  see the \"f T\"\r\n\r\nhttp://store2.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?pid=930349&code=1272&store=OLS-UK&nr=0&event=displayFontPackage&newsample=of+Tex&view=View\r\n\r\nThe
  inverted quote marks seem to be off too. They look fine set to Optical kerning,
  but I wouldn't want to use that setting for text?\r\n\r\nAny ideas what's going
  on? Think it has something to do with opentype?\r\n\r\nHelp greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\nStephen"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: f T isn't a ligature - it's simply a small word space. Perhaps the space is
    kerned towards the f and the T towards the space, maybe it's just an unfortunate
    character combination.
  created: '2012-02-29 18:37:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Also, worth noting that this sort of thing has nothing to do with OpenType
    per se. Adobe's OpenType version of Univers simply inherited its kerning from
    the PostScript Type 1 version (though possibly extended to cover more accented
    characters).
  created: '2012-02-29 19:04:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A Tale of Two Cities (classic problematic kerning setting).\r\n\r\nUntil
    three-character kerning is implemented in fonts, and supported in layout apps,
    you will have to manually apply \u201COptical\u201D kerning.\r\nPerhaps there
    is some way to code specific exceptions?\r\n\r\nActually, now that I think about
    it, it would be possible to solve this instance in an OpenType font:\r\nsub f
    space T by fTspecial;\r\n\r\n\u2026where fTspecial is one glyph."
  children:
  - author:
      name: paul d hunt
      picture: 109422
    body: InDesign supports contextual kerning triplets.
    created: '2012-03-03 17:33:23'
  created: '2012-02-29 19:23:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Or perhaps use a {calt} sub for the "f"?  The "f.alt" may be the same one
    used to make a {calt} variation on the "fl, fh, fb,..." lig?
  created: '2012-02-29 19:28:45'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: Done:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/57_4559.jpg]
  created: '2012-02-29 19:49:37'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "f_space_T ligature is a bad idea. In justified text, this \u2018word space\u2019
    would remain inflexible. Not a good thing. Maybe you were just being facetious,
    Nick."
  created: '2012-02-29 22:38:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I might not be getting something here, but this doesn't need a fancy three-letter
    super kern if the 2 pairs are present... This kind of thing is precisely why I'd
    argue it's a Good Idea\u2122 to kern things like f/space and space/T. And maybe
    Q/space and space/J, depending on the design. Overhanging glyph parts that optically
    diminish the space. Even if an f/space combination isn't met with yet another
    overhanging thing on the other side of the space (a not-too-unlikely worst-case
    scenario), it can still optically make the space appear smaller than it should
    be."
  created: '2012-02-29 23:14:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I usually kern space to overhanging glyphs like space T and f space
  created: '2012-02-29 23:18:13'
- author:
    name: stephen_k
  body: "Thanks for the replies\u2026 I have found a post-script version of Adobe
    Univers and it doesn't have any of these problems so I'm switching. It seems odd
    that the more up-to-date open type version has these problems?"
  created: '2012-03-01 09:17:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> I might not be getting something here, but this doesn't need a fancy three-letter
    super kern if the 2 pairs are present... \r\n\r\nIn many Adobe fonts, the two
    pairs are present, but the kerning pulls things closer together, not further apart.
    So three-letter kern combos are one solution. Or just not kerning against the
    space in the first place."
  created: '2012-03-01 21:16:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: What, they have <em>negative</em> kerning in pairs like f/space and space/T?
    <em>Why?</em>
  created: '2012-03-01 23:42:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What, they have negative kerning in pairs like f/space and space/T? Why?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    same reason you have any other kerning pairs,to adjust the optical space to \"appear
    to be\" more even."
  created: '2012-03-02 13:33:37'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Univers has space/T kerning -180, about 2/3 of a space (278), hence the problem.
    -20 or -30 is quite good.\r\nBTW in John Hudson's Brill: f/space +25 and space/T
    -20, and looks like the best solution."
  created: '2012-03-02 14:11:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'In Williams Caslon Text I used ''calt'', as Chris notes. In general f before
    a space is substituted by a shorter-nosed f, and in combinations ''f space T''
    a still shorter nose. The right extension of the crossbar is also adjusted. And
    these are also used in various situations with f and a following letter. '
  created: '2012-03-02 15:16:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, I understand the practical issues, but\r\n<em>shortening</em> the
    beak of the \"f\" before a space is\r\npretty much opposite of what <em>should</em>
    be done!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-02 16:57:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't agree, Hrant. I think it is preferable to keep the word spaces uniform
    looking, and I'm supposing you agree. Violation of that was what disturbed Stephen
    K, who started this thread. \r\n\r\nThe original of Caslon does have a very long-nosed
    f, and I preserved that as the default, as I liked it. I tested all of the options,
    and it looked to me best to slightly shorten the nose before a space; I also extended
    the crossbar a bit to the right, so there is less of a 'hole' before the space.
    \r\n\r\nThe hole under the T is why it is preferable to kern it with a space before.
    But then you really get into trouble with an 'f' before. So that has a still shorter
    nose substituted. If I have time I'll put up a picture later...   "
  created: '2012-03-02 18:10:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think a <em>minimum</em> (apparent) wordspace is important,\r\nbut if wordspace
    variance were that bad justified setting\r\nwould have far fewer proponents. I
    think boumas are\r\nmore important.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-02 18:15:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You can also create  an alternate space glyph (kinda like the old metal days)
    \r\nsub f space' T by space.4m;"
  created: '2012-03-02 18:21:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Maybe this depends [too] much on spacing (and design) to formulate a general
    rule.\r\nIf the \"f\" already has a negative sidebearing, I can't really imagine
    it would need a negative kern on top of that.\r\n\r\nFWIW, I personally don't
    see things like \"T\"s as having \"a hole under\" them. The x-ht region isn't
    the only thing one needs to consider when kerning, is it?"
  created: '2012-03-03 10:51:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fs_word_spacing_5352.gif]\r\n\r\nHere's
    the illustration. Top is what CALT gives you. Middle is with the default long-nosed
    f, and the negative kerning of the space and the left side of the T. Bottom the
    negative kerning of the left side of the T to the space is removed. The other
    kerning (Ta, Tw) is retained. \r\n\r\nTo me the top looks better. In the middle
    the closeness of the f T is distracting. In the bottom, without the negative kerning
    of the space and T, the relevant word spaces seem a bit wide. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-03 21:46:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me #3 is best.\r\nYou might be seeing the space as too large\r\nbecause
    you're fixating on the hole, which\r\nhowever doesn't happen in reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-03 21:51:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Kent: <em>Maybe you were just being facetious, Nick.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, before
    I posted I considered that this \u201Cligature\u201D would default to multiple
    glyphs once beyond a certain tracking value.\r\n\r\nI also like the suggestions
    made by Chris and Bill, to substitute alternate \u201Cf\u201D or \u201Cspace\u201D
    glyphs.\r\n\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nPaul, how does one implement contextual kerning triplets
    in a font?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: paul d hunt
      picture: 109422
    body: "Nick, there is no mechanism to add kerning triplets (or quadruplets, or...
      I\u2019ll just call it contextual kerning) when exporting from FontLab, but
      if you\u2019re compiling your fonts with AFDKO, then the syntax would look something
      like this:\r\n\r\npos glyph1' 22 glyph2 glyph3;\r\n"
    created: '2012-03-20 18:27:12'
  created: '2012-03-03 22:24:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In #3, the f T is not bad, but you have to turn off the left kerning only,
    which I don't think you can do, or at least without using CALT and an alternatively
    kerned T. The A T in #3 is a little too wide\u2014there the negative kerning of
    the space T in the top line shows to advantage. So to me the top is still the
    best of these. \r\n\r\nThere may be a still better way to do this, but my main
    point is that #2 is a problem. And you are going to get that with a long-nosed
    f and if you do negative kerning of space T and do no CALT tricks. I think there
    is a minor word image or 'bouma' problem when you get something like the middle
    situation. That's because you might have to look twice\u2014your eyes have to
    regress\u2014to distinguish the two words.\r\n\r\nI don't think any of this is
    a big problem, but I think there is a slight gain in readability if you avoid
    the middle situation.  "
  created: '2012-03-03 22:41:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick: <cite>No, before I posted I considered that this \u201Cligature\u201D
    would default to multiple glyphs once beyond a certain tracking value.</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm.
    Interesting assumption. I\u2019m not sure that the adjustment of word spaces by
    the justification engine would trigger the same mechanism that tracking does,
    such that an f_space_T {liga} substitution would be disassembled in a looser line.
    But maybe you\u2019re right. One would have to test this.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-04 13:23:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, you didn\u2019t show the setting with no kerning.\r\nMy preference
    for historic designs is with historic kerning (if not set with \u201Coriginal\u201D
    instruments!)\r\nFor instance, I see no reason to kern T-a quite so much as you
    have \u2014 there is plenty of space between A and T, and T and w, so that a larger
    space between T and a would not look out of place, and those letters would not
    suffer the forced proximity caused by the prominent serif of T, the design of
    which mitigates gappiness in the first place.\r\n\r\nBy the same token, I prefer
    h&js with no adjustment to letterspacing.\r\n\r\nThis wasn\u2019t always my preference,
    no doubt it is an acquired taste."
  created: '2012-03-04 17:30:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Kent:<em> I\u2019m not sure that the adjustment of word spaces by the justification
    engine would trigger the same mechanism that tracking does \u2026 One would have
    to test this.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point, I didn\u2019t think of that."
  created: '2012-03-04 17:33:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I think no kerning\u2014which is historic for text as opposed to titles\u2014would
    look odd or antiquarian. But I think you're right that my Ta is bit tight. "
  created: '2012-03-04 18:49:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How much is \"maa\" compared to \"a hair\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-04 18:50:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Hrant, I suppose it would be better if it were a great new measurement, but
    it was a typo that I accidentally posted and then corrected.
  created: '2012-03-04 18:54:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Urban Dictionary is inconclusive.\r\nI therefore propose that \"maa\" is
    between \"a hair\" and \"slightly\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-04 18:58:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>\u2026 odd or antiquarian. </em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s me alright,
    I\u2019m afraid I much prefer the originals to Linotype\u2019s makeovers\u2014but
    good for Frutiger and Zapf to be making a buck off them.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-05 23:28:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I like Bill's solution.\r\n\r\nI also note that there are some OpenType engines
    that break the glyph run (the unit of OpenType feature processing) at the space.
    In these engines, layout that requires something like 'calt' to work across spaces
    won't work.  :(  Presumably kerning triplets across spaces won't work in these
    either.\r\n\r\nTwo environments I know have this limitation are Adobe Flash and
    Mozilla Firefox."
  created: '2012-03-06 07:49:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Also, I should note that if you you already have a kern pair for glyph1, glyph
    2, the contextual value (22 in my example above) is added to the default kern
    pair, so your kerning information is additive.
  created: '2012-03-20 18:31:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I used to buy a lot of books for myself; I have\r\na decent library. These
    days I prefer to spend\r\nthe money on books for my kids. Shoot me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-21 02:15:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I might not be getting something here, but this doesn't need a fancy
    three-letter super kern if the 2 pairs are present... This kind of thing is precisely
    why I'd argue it's a Good Idea\u2122 to kern things like f/space and space/T.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nIt's a bad idea. If you're going to use kerns with spaces, as Nick
    says, you need three letters. You can never anticipate what will fall together.
    One of my test words in my test-text checks \"f_space_J\" as with \"of Jewish\"
    You use a pull-back kerning with the f, and the space can disappear.\r\n\r\nOr
    look at Adobe Jenson, with the f_space _quotedblleft. Again, the space disappears
    -- really, it usually looks like it falls after the qutedblleft...\r\n\r\nBetter
    to use an alternate f when followed by a space. Take part of the space out of
    terminal of the f, and add a little to the sidebearing.\r\n\r\nA lot also depends
    on how tightly you set type. If it's set as tightly as Kinross's books, you'll
    find all sorts of oddities with the spaceband. In Hochuli's book, <cite>Detail
    in Typography</cite>, he argues for a certain generosity with the sidebearing
    space around parenthesis, quote marks, brackets, etc. (p.  37) . Good point. But
    with tight setting, you'll find that space sometimes greater than the wordspace.
    There isn't an example in the text of <cite>DT</cite>, but you can find plenty
    in Dowding's <cite>Finer points</cite>.\r\n\r\nRemember, back in the days of foundry
    type, the comp just didn't add space -- or as much space, when optical considerations
    were made, when driving out the line to justify. To get a computer do have the
    same effect is a lot of work. If it's ever published, I spent a good bit of time
    on this in my chapter of Rich Hendel's new book. Everyone is encouraged to buy
    a copy (Shameles plug) (Hey, Kent has a chapter in it, too)  (if it's ever published).
    (Except Hrant, who insists he'll get it from the library.) (And no, I get no royalties
    -- it's Rich's book)."
  created: '2012-03-21 02:23:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Ah. You remember my hobby.
  created: '2012-03-21 02:24:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":-)\r\nGood luck. I grew up dodging Lebanese snipers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-21 03:50:33'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "@Kent [ http://typophile.com/node/90561#comment-497596 ]\r\nunluckily not.
    So probably CALT will win."
  created: '2012-07-30 17:06:59'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "\"InDesign supports contextual kerning triplets\" [[http://typophile.com/node/90561#comment-497511|Paul]]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kern_triplets_3545.jpg]\r\nA-space-T
    and f-space-T are triplets, first -100, second +300 (/2000)\r\nLower row - kerning
    is set to zero"
  created: '2012-07-30 23:24:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In a triplet, is the value applied between the last two? And what happens
    to regular (double) kern values that might also be specified?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-30 23:29:30'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Hrant: 'what happens to regular (double) kern values that might also be specified?'\r\n\r\n\"Contextual
    positioning rules must be in a different lookup than pair positioning rules, since
    the rules are of different lookup types. Because each lookup is applied independently
    of the other lookup(s) over the entire text stream, the positioning change specified
    in a pair kerning rule will be added to the positioning change specified in a
    contextual kerning rule, whenever the two rules match the same glyph pair in the
    text stream.\"\r\n[ http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html#6.h
    ]\r\n\r\nHrant: 'In a triplet, is the value applied between the last two?'\r\nexamples
    from cited site:\r\n<code>position quoteleft T' <0 0 20 0 > quoteright;</code>\r\nThis
    form shows a full value record which allows you to alter both the (x,y) coordinates
    of the origin and the (x,y) coordinates of the advance width. So in this example
    the advance width of \"T\" will increase by 20 (the origin remain unaltered).\r\n\r\n<code>position
    quoteleft T' 20 quoteright;</code>\r\nThe simple form of the value record which
    specifies a value for only a change to the (x) value of the advance width.\"\r\nSo
    it is your choice: you can shift the glyph and/or change its advance width.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the Contextual Kerning is not limited to two or three glyphs:\r\n<code>position
    s f' 10 t period;</code>\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-31 11:40:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, fancy stuff. Thanks for explaining.\r\n\r\nOut of curiosity, is there
    a limit to how many characters can be contextually positioned?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-31 15:04:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks!
  created: '2012-08-01 18:42:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2012-08-18 21:25:24'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "POC:\r\nlookup kern1 {\r\n    pos \\s  \\f' 200 \\t' 100 \\period ;\r\n}
    kern1;\r\nfeature kern {\r\n  script DFLT;\r\n     language dflt ;\r\n      lookup
    kern1;\r\n} kern;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Font_3424.jpg]\r\nUpdate:
    \"start\" and \"end\" groups aren't mandatory. You can do something like this:\r\npos
    \\a' <100 0 200 0> \\b' <100 0 200 0> \\c' <100 0 200 0> \\d' <100 0 200 0>;\r\nat
    every occurrence of the string \"abcd\" the letters \"a b c d\" are extra spaced
    (in this example no matter what is before and after).\r\n(tested in FireFox 14.0.1;
    pair kerning is still additive)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-19 14:47:29'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "HaHa! Got it! You can do it with probably many glyphs/classes, as far as
    you keep them in three groups and one glyph/class (middle) is affected:\r\n<code>pos
    o f space' T w o 300;</code>\r\nor even more than one glyph/class:\r\n<code>position
    s f'10 t' -5 period;</code>\r\nwhere in sequence s-f-t-. the x-advance of f is
    increased by 10, and the x-advance of t is decreased by 5.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kern19_4762.jpg]\r\nThe
    upper text matches the rule, the lower not, so only first space is wider.\r\n[support
    in AFDKO added Jan 2009]\r\n\r\n[edit]\r\n\"pos o f space' T w o 300;\" is not
    correct, at least now. It ought to be:\r\nposition f o space' 300 T w o;"
  created: '2014-09-20 14:34:29'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: '[[http://typophile.com/node/90561#comment-517680|bug fix]]'
  created: '2014-09-20 14:37:03'
date: '2012-02-29 17:35:59'
title: "Adobe Opentype Univers Roman set to metrics\u2026"

---
