---
author:
  name: aaronbell
  picture: 117132
body: "(This is a break away post from [[Please Read: Typophile (TEMP)]] because this
  discussion deserves to live outside of the comments on that thread)\r\n\r\nTo start,
  let me say that I am one of those individuals that has been strongly turned away
  from Typophile due to the overly harsh, pointless personal attacks and lack of respect
  for fellow human beings. But I have been following this discussion and the one on
  Type Board, hoping to find a return to civility that has been so sorely lacking.
  Well, I haven't been terribly impressed by either. One bans those seen as overly
  hostile and comes off as isolationist while the other is overrun by negativity,
  driving away those who truly want to contribute and learn. Truly unfortunate. \r\n\r\nQuoting
  Hrant from [[http://typophile.com/node/91007#comment-499372|here]]\r\n<blockquote>But
  I don't think being gifted and being rude are mutually exclusive. To me anybody
  -talent or no- who can handle aspects of an environment that are unpleasant to him
  will derive more benefit from it, and will allow others to learn more from him as
  well.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat doesn't kill you makes you stronger, eh? \r\n\r\nLook,
  the internet is a marvelous place that allows for communication across vast distances
  and time. Awesome. In the early days, people realised that the anonyminity that
  the internet provided allowed us to say whatever we wanted and do whatever we wanted
  without fear of reprival. But the Type community is not large, is it? We know each
  other. I will likely talk to the lot of you at some conference or another in the
  next years. Since we are actual people who actually know each other, why should
  be insulting or antagonistic? Why can't we be civil? Surely there is enough humanity
  in us to rise above the common denominator of internet commentators. \r\n\r\nThe
  really sad thing is that I've met a lot of you in person and you all seem like reasonable,
  friendly individuals. So why all the venom online? A number of folk I've talken
  to say, \"Oh, but my internet persona is not who I am, it is separate\". To that
  I say bullshit. As the saying goes, the real measure of a man (or woman!) is how
  they treat someone who can provide them no benefit. So what can be said of someone
  who <em>intentionally</em> attacks others for no good reason (either instigator
  or responder), regardless of the medium? And even if someone else attacks you first,
  who says you need to lower yourself to their level and respond in kind, perpetuating
  the cycle of hate? Who you are online is who you are. Do not deny it.\r\n\r\nThere
  has been a lot of good to come out of Typophile, and a lot more good can be gained
  through having a centralised location for discourse and communication. I wouldn't
  want to lose the extensive history documented here. That said, unless we all work
  to raise the quality of life around here, the community will continue to bleed and
  find other places to congregate. Once that voice is split, it will be significantly
  more difficult to regain it. \r\n\r\nSo I call on you all to check yourselves&mdash;don't
  demand that the moderators control people. Show that <strong>you</strong> care and
  control yourselves if you don't want to see this community die.\r\n\r\nNo, you can't
  solve a problem by censoring it, but you can chose to respond and act  with civility."
comments:
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "<wipes tear>\r\n\r\nThanks Aaron. It's easy to point fingers and demand moderation,
    blocking and banning - and a lot harder to simply hold oneself to a higher standard.
    There are only a few people behind Typophile trying to make things happen, and
    the community easily outnumbers us 50,000 to 1. Any community will have strong
    personalities and differences of opinion. We need to pull together."
  created: '2012-03-13 23:08:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>And even if someone else attacks you first, who says you need to lower
    yourself to their level and respond in kind, perpetuating the cycle of hate? </em>\r\n\r\nOne\u2019s
    skin is only so thick, and it\u2019s not pleasant being a whipping boy.\r\nFrankly,
    if you want to stay around, giving as good as you get is the best way to discourage
    ad hominem attacks\u2014that is, if the forum does nothing to censure the attacks
    in the first place.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-13 23:52:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-14 01:25:48'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "The once-great Typophile is left with an intolerably high ratio of font ID
    requests, lazy student questions hundreds of useless Hrant posts. None of these
    things are interesting to type professionals.\r\n\r\nHow does holding myself to
    a higher standard improve Typophile and create an environment where type professionals
    will flock. \r\nAre we supposed to engage Hrant in civil discussion and that will
    somehow improve the situation? When old Hrant posts are deleted in a clandestine
    manner due to some back door dealings, we're prevented from having civil discussion.
    Nick has pounded that rock for years and it just doesn't do anything.\r\n\r\nIf
    I were running this place I could improve it by deleting one account . . . simple
    as that. The people that run this place act as if not deleting Hrant's account
    is virtuous. It's not. It's weak and it's ruined this place.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-14 01:55:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're demonizing, to the point of ignoring real problems,\r\nincluding two
    that you mention yourself. As I said in the\r\nother thread, I left Typo-L voluntarily
    about 8 years ago\r\nand it did not help - in fact it became stagnant very quickly,\r\nwith
    even the person who triggered my departure leaving\r\nhimself within months.\r\n\r\nAnd
    why do you assume your breed of \"type professionals\"\r\nis the only reason Typophile
    should exist? If you want this\r\nplace to simply be some sort of guild, you won't
    find enough\r\nsupport to make it useful to enough people. You really need\r\na
    private list, like ATypI's*. One reason is that the type of\r\nperson you describe
    typically does not commit the time to\r\nshare much help without a strong chance
    of reward.\r\n\r\n* Or here's an idea: maybe the TDC should start\r\na forum?
    You can rest assured I would not join!\r\n\r\n> When old Hrant posts are deleted\r\n\r\nWhat
    are you talking about?\r\n\r\nFor the record, I have <em>never</em> done something
    like this:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15819#comment-92415\r\nFor which I forgave
    him immediately.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-14 02:33:36'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "@ typodermic .  Ray, I'm probably misreading your post, but I don't agree
    with your comment about lazy student questions. \r\n\r\n Whether a person is lazy
    or not, isn't your opinion of a person's work ethic somewhat detrimental to the
    population of the global typography community at large? Or do you think there
    should a sticky posted in the General Forum stating  student's appropriate work
    ethic?\r\n\r\nOr perhaps there should there be a Student's Forum? \r\n\r\nJust
    curious.\r\n\r\nPersonally speaking I don't mind answering 'student' questions."
  created: '2012-03-14 03:25:44'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Oh great.  A response from Hrant.\r\n\r\nI didn't contribute to Typo-L much
    but watched you ruin it. By the time you left, a lot of pretty major names in
    the type world had already gone and a lot of them ended up here in the early days
    of Typophile. Of course, I can't prove that those people left because of you but
    that's what i think it was.\r\n\r\nIf it was a less open to the rabble, professionals
    would want to stick around more. Only you and a few other type professionals have
    the patience to sort through hundreds of Hrant posts and other junk every week.
    The reason you never see a critical mass of type professionals in one place is
    because of you. You're a highly influential person: highly influential in ruining
    everything you touch.\r\n\r\nIf the measure of a good type forum is one in which
    there are lots of Hrant posts then this must be the best.\r\n\r\n> When old Hrant
    posts are deleted\r\n\r\nWhere's the thread where you got temporarily kicked off
    Typophile a few years ago? If that's still around then I stand corrected.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15819#comment-92415\r\nWhat's
    this an example of? How you endeavor to persistently drive Nick to anger? How
    true.\r\n\r\nMy main point is: Hrant ruins everything."
  created: '2012-03-14 03:45:20'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Lazy student posts are general questions from students who show up on Typophile,
    obviously never having read any previous threads with exactly the same question.
    If you don't know what I mean, you must be new here.\r\n\r\nWhat make a typeface
    readable?\r\nIs type deign art?\r\n\r\nThat kind of stuff. I welcome smart student
    questions. There' s nothing wrong with being a student. There is something wrong
    with being a lazy student.\r\n\r\nLook, I don't think anyone gives a rat's ass
    if I go away or not. I'm sure a lot of people here would be happy to never see
    another post from me. But I've got years of experience and knowledge that might
    be valuable in some way. I also don't think I'm the only experienced font designer
    who tends to avoid this place because they're not discerning about who joins and
    who gets kicked off.  If you want a forum where anyone can join and anyone can
    say anything, it'll have less and less experienced professionals to lend their
    knowledge."
  created: '2012-03-14 03:58:50'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I for one would miss your input, and I dig your action. I don't agree with
    you about a 'student's work ethics', but so what.\r\n\r\nAnd it seems to me that
    forum members can simply chose not to respond to someone's post. Isn't angst brought
    on the person who chooses to interact with someone they know to be upsetting to
    them? Kinda kinky weird really. Interesting study too!\r\n\r\nAnd no, I'm nowhere
    near new to Typophile. I've was a member here as Hiroshige (represent!!) since
    '07 and just recently as 5star.\r\n\r\nI get a kick out student questions - especially
    the obvious ones who just downloaded a free trail of software, lol. But, still
    dig answering and sharing what I know. And that's what it's all about really.
    The choice of sharing - some do some don't - whatever, it's all good because it
    represents the global community at large.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-14 04:15:44'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "How has this devolved into finger pointing and name calling again? Really
    people, whether Hrant is *the* issue or not is no reason to personally attack
    each other. \r\n\r\nI'm also one of the people who has only checkin in here a
    little in recent years, mostly because of the issues outlined by others, which
    boil down to topics that don't interest me, spam, and personal attacks.\r\n\r\nEver
    since I join over 6 years ago I've been amazed at how personal people get on here,
    and agree with the call to all grow up and stop it. In any community there are
    people we don't like or get on well with. It's normal. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I like
    the idea of exploring ways to filter posts/topics so that I only see the stuff
    that interests me. Giving options to flag/rate/filter posts and topics if a good
    idea. Or maybe adopt a friend/follower model, so I only sign up the feeds of those
    I wish you listen to. \r\n\r\nI agree Typophile has a lot of good stuff buried
    in it, I hope one way or another we can get past the personal stuff and continue
    to let this place educate and inspire."
  created: '2012-03-14 04:37:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simon, what \"each other\"?! I've been holding my tongue\r\nlike never before.
    Strangely, it's been very easy to do.\r\nI'm trying to put myself in their shoes,
    giving them the\r\nbenefit of the doubt, waiting for them to calm down, even\r\nthough
    I think they're mistaken in perspective as well as\r\nbehavior.\r\n\r\nRay, you
    know I can, but I don't want to nitpick your\r\npoints one by one; I'm not even
    going to try to dispel\r\nyour Hrant The Destructor screenplay... When I said\r\n\"OK\"
    to Aaron above, I meant it.\r\n\r\n> I'm sure a lot of people here would be happy
    to never see another post from me.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't be one of them. In fact I
    myself would like to\r\nsee you contribute far more than you typically have.\r\nThis
    also goes for any other designer (no matter how\r\nfew years they've been around,
    or how much I myself\r\nthink their fonts are junk) who sincerely wants to help\r\nothers
    - it's that simple. To me participation is the key\r\nto making a place more to
    your liking; and getting rid\r\nof the \"competition\" only makes you weaker.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI
    think I've seen this movie before. You (and certain\r\nothers) simply don't want
    to spend the time helping,\r\nnot because you're evil, simply because you like
    to\r\nspend your time differently, which is OK; the thing\r\nis, you also don't
    want to watch somebody you don't\r\nagree with \"get away\" with saying his opinion
    - so it's\r\nfrustrating! But you can't translate that into \"he's the\r\nproblem,
    if he only left everything would be fine\". That's\r\nnot really believable, because
    what would fill the void?\r\nYou still wouldn't have the time! That's what happened\r\non
    Typo-L, and it would happen again. Just participate\r\nto your desire and ability
    - the rest is out of your hands.\r\n\r\nSo let's fix real problems, fixable problems,
    together.\r\nLike the annoyance of spam, the attention-sucking\r\ntype-IDs, etc.
    Let's not expect smooth sailing for any\r\nof our ideas in public. That's not
    how humans works,\r\nthat's not how culture marks progress.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-14 05:53:17'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Here's a tip from someone who's watched this community over its lifetime:
    \r\n\r\nI find some of the characters here have a bedside manner a little like
    <a href=\"http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0412142/\">Dr. House</a>. But here's the
    advice: If Dr. House is a genius then you put up with his drama, attitude and
    insults. But, if Dr. House's work is not all that, then you can dismiss his advice
    and sidestep the drama. \r\n\r\nSo, go find the Dr. House that's irritating you.
    Look at his URLs, his work, his fonts. Does the work inspire you? Does it look
    like he must know what he's doing? Then pay attention and look past the bedside
    manner. But, if the work doesn't pass muster you're safe to ignore the whole package:
    ignore the advice and the work and the headache.\r\n\r\nThe one thing you can't
    do is act like Dr. House to get back at Dr. House. You will lose and it will drive
    you insane because Dr. House will win. If you find you're able to engage with
    Dr. House and come up with some awesome retorts: News Flash! You just might be
    a Dr. House yourself.\r\n\r\n(Apologies to those of you who can't watch the show
    House MD. You're missing out on a good drama with a guy that is easy to both admire
    and dislike.)"
  created: '2012-03-14 06:40:00'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I only say <em>his</em>, because they're always guys.\r\n\r\nI don't bother
    saying names because the names change over the years. (Yes, they do. I'm just
    not going to go digging up old threads.)"
  created: '2012-03-14 06:46:13'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Typo-L was just as interesting after you left. The decline in posts was gradual
    and back then you didn't post 100,000 times per week. I'm not opposed to you having
    opinions I don't agree with, Hrant. Most of the time I agree. I don't like how
    you flex your internet arguing muscles around here 24 hours a day. It's annoying
    how you have to lend your keyboard to every thread whether or not you really have
    anything to contribute or not.\r\n\r\nEven as I type this I know I'm wasting my
    time because you'll find some other angle to deflect my main point:\r\n\r\nHrant
    ruined Typophile (for me)."
  created: '2012-03-14 08:15:44'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I like to contribute, sometimes. But honestly\u2013how do some of you find
    the time to contribute like 200 posts per week. It sucks so much energy to just
    read some threads, let alone contribute... when do you work, eat, sleep?? I like
    to help people when I can, but there are also other more important things to do.\r\n\r\nMy
    basic impression that Typophile has not improved in the last years, without pointing
    any fingers. Perhaps there are so many small threads that the interesting ones
    get buried? Also, I like to see many different professionals chime in, as it livens
    up the discussions. Some opinions of the frequent posters are well known to those
    who spend some time here, so need not be dragged into every thread, like some
    kind of meta-thread. A better filter for intersting posts (I completely ignore
    type-IDs, as they are a waste of time, and a lot of posters just leave the building
    when there is no solution ASAP) perhaps by flagging or ratings, and making these
    more visible so many professionals notice and are motivated to contribute. Perhaps
    increasing moderation so that simular threads somehow are combined or tagged,
    so as to stop from having the same discussion over and over. Follow up threads
    with clearly identifyable titles are a bonus..."
  created: '2012-03-14 10:44:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm more bummed by the signal-to-noise ratio. Sure some folks can be annoying
    at times, but it's equally annoying, if not more so, to read all the people posting
    annoying comments about the annoying user.\r\n\r\nAnd now here I am posting a
    comment about being annoyed by the posts people make about being annoyed by another
    poster.\r\n\r\nAnd on and on.\r\n\r\nI'm not part of the type community...just
    an avid fan who dreams of someday finding the time to devote to proper type design.
    So take my opinion for what its worth.\r\n\r\nEither way, I much prefer online
    communities that use a light hand when it comes to moderation and banning. I also
    think that while there are some overly personal attacks here, there's also a lot
    of sincere critique that people take way too personally. A critique of work is
    not a personal insult. "
  created: '2012-03-14 15:18:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps what we need is a sub forum called \"Antagonist/protagonist\" where
    divisive dialogue can be shunted.  This would allow those who like this sort of
    thing to have their OK Corral, if they so desire, without being banned or excommunicated.
    It would also allow the original thread to go on about the subject it was intended
    for. A link from the original thread could be provided for all those who wish
    to follow the fisticuffs .\r\nThe very big problem is, who decides this and how
    much time would it take? I would hope that we could all act enough like adults
    to just ignore those we find problematic and pursue those who we may individually
    feel have merit. This could be made easier by installing tools similar to \"Tracker\"
    that would allow anyone who chooses to select \"ignore 'Dezcom'\" if they choose.
    \ There might be another selection which says \"Follow 'Hrant'\" if they so desire.\r\nAgain,
    I stop and think, but why control it? The answer always comes back to mature evaluation
    by the poster and reader.  There are a big bunch of fans of \"Type ID\" who deserve
    their place to converse.  Just because I have little interest in this area does
    not mean I think we should dump it.  I just ignore most of those threads. \r\nI
    sometimes ignore the Flaming threads and sometimes curiosity beckons a peek.  On
    any given day, I may have a higher tolerance than another. \"House\" is one of
    my favorite shows, I watch it often,but I am not a Dr. House kind of person.  I
    detest so called \"Reality\" shows and never watch them.  I do not wish to ban
    them from those who like that sort of thing.\r\nAny way, after all that dribble
    I just posted, I admit that there is no solution to human nature.  I would rather
    let it be what it is than try to be a control freak and command everything. My
    personal solution is just \"To click or not to click, that is the question, whether
    it is nobler of the mind...\""
  created: '2012-03-14 16:58:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a sub forum called \"Antagonist/protagonist\"\r\n\r\nI myself would never
    go there, maybe not even in self-defense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-14 18:18:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">>I myself would never go there, maybe not even in self-defense.\r\n\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2012-03-14 18:21:47'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "I for one agree with <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/91027#comment-499457\">Darrel's
    comment</a>. Please can we all stick to that?\r\n\r\nfin."
  created: '2012-03-19 01:41:33'
date: '2012-03-13 22:51:26'
title: Raise the bar

---
