---
author:
  name: Cath
body: "I am proposing my thesis topic and could do with some feedback. My aim in the
  thesis is to critically look at typography in print and on screen, and examine the
  differences between them focusing on legibility and readability, and perhaps transferring
  a piece of visual communication in print to screen and see if it captures the viewer
  the same or creates a completely different feel. I am looking for as much information
  on the topic and to find professionals who may have applied theories to either print
  typography or on screen typography. I think it is fairly new topic with the rapid
  emergence of new technologies and how type can be treated on screen - kinetic type,
  3 dimensional etc.\r\nSo if anyone has some opinions or links I can research, I'd
  really appreciate it."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not a new topic, but it certainly hasn't\r\nbeen covered well enough.
    Good luck!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-14 22:01:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Seems like an incredibly broad subject matter for a thesis. \r\n\r\nYou asked
    for opinion: The primary differences are 1) resolution and 2) light source.\r\n\r\nAs
    for 1) that's slowly but surely becoming irrelevant (e-ink, retina/high-density
    iOS devices, etc). As for 2) still a primary difference (reflective vs. projected
    light) though, again, e-ink is making that a bit less of an issue.\r\n\r\nI'd
    be interested in a thesis that perhaps looks forward a bit into the not-to-distant
    future to see where we're going. "
  created: '2012-03-15 16:40:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Resolution might become an irrelevant difference one day,\r\nbut ~300dpi
    isn't even close to enough, even anti-aliased.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-15 16:53:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Motion changes everything.\r\nPick either with or without animation.\r\nI
    would go with motion, as it\u2019s more interesting from a design point of view,
    whereas discussing motionless screen typography takes you into technics and readability
    science."
  created: '2012-03-15 18:28:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or readability science might prevent you from going into motion.  :-/\r\nNot
    that there's no room at all for animation; just not much room\r\nthat's shared
    with efficient delivery of text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-15 18:33:32'
- author:
    name: zachhinkle
  body: Will your thesis be given on a powerpoint/projector? Seems difficult to show
    key differences between two processes when they are all shown digitally.
  created: '2012-03-17 15:08:17'
- author:
    name: Cath
  body: "Thanks everyone, great feedback and a lot of things to consider. It has helped
    in the direction  I want to take my thesis. I knew it was so broad but wasn't
    sure how to narrow it to something that was interesting and could be supported
    by theories. I was looking at the readability and legibility theories, but motion
    changes everything with type. Plus that is the direction I myself are taking -
    digital media.\r\nThanks also the links those who posted them\r\nCheers"
  created: '2012-03-17 21:40:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, actually to me Ikea's image has an \"earthiness\" (more\r\nthan a sophistication)
    that Verdana sort of matches. I think a\r\nbigger problem than the font chosen
    was that it was in effect a\r\ntechnical cop out, and <em>right when</em> webfonts
    were taking off!\r\nThey thought it would save them money, but resorting to a\r\npedestrian
    solution loses you money in the long term.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-17 21:50:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speaking of resolution:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/aegir/6845170968/sizes/o/in/photostream/\r\n\r\nLook
    at the \"N\", third line from the bottom. If that \"N\"\r\nis large enough to
    read comfortably, it's also messed up\r\nto the naked eye. So if you're going
    to render like a slob,\r\nyou need <em>much</em> higher resolution. You can get
    away with\r\ncoarser (I mean ~300) resolution if you're mindful of how\r\nthe
    pixels lay down. You can't have both, no matter how\r\nmany laymen (and rosy-eyed
    non-laymen) you fool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-18 01:09:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "For an example of the difference between print and screen typography, consider
    Ikea\u2019s change of corporate typeface from Futura to Verdana.\r\n\r\nVerdana
    is brilliant on screen, for which it was designed, but lacks sophistication in
    print, which is unfortunate for a design business like Ikea.\r\n\r\nHere are a
    couple of items that will give you a good idea of how designers can dislike a
    face in print (to the extent of it being the butt of an April Fool\u2019s joke),
    which has long been extolled on screen:\r\n\r\nhttp://idsgn.org/posts/verdana-and-georgia-grow-up/\r\nhttp://idsgn.org/posts/apple-switches-to-verdana/\r\n\r\nMore
    typically, the issue of screen/print portability is framed the other way around,
    with the main culprits being faces which have excelled for centuries in print
    having difficulty adjusting to pixellation."
  created: '2012-03-18 05:31:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Reaction to the new iPad would indicate that we are entering an era when screen
    resolution will no longer be such an important issue (hooray!), to be replaced
    by that of backlit vs. reflective. And this will not so much pit print against
    screen, considering that there are reflective e-readers.
  created: '2012-03-18 21:32:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That link I posted <em>is</em> from the new iPad...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-18 21:41:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry, I wasn't talking about <em>your</em> reaction, Hrant :-)
  created: '2012-03-18 21:51:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fair enough, but do you think that \"N\" is good enough?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-18 21:56:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>do you think that \"N\" is good enough?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo
    me it looks better than most Ns I encounter daily in books and newspapers."
  created: '2012-03-18 22:19:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026do you think that \"N\" is good enough?</em>\r\n\r\nSimilarly rounded
    parts of a type like Calibri should all straighten out together at a certain resolution
    threshold, and it looks like that hasn\u2019t happened in your example. However,
    I couldn\u2019t say whether this is problematic without seeing it on the actual
    Retina screen."
  created: '2012-03-20 19:05:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More than the inconsistency of rounding\r\nversus not, look at the two stems
    of that \"N\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-20 19:15:35'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Nick Shinn hit on an important topic which is seldom addressed in the print
    vs. screen debate, and that is transmission vs. reflection.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I find looking at the screen for extended periods to be fatiguing: I take frequent
    breaks from the screen, simply to desaturate my eyeballs. If I don't, I can easily
    develop optical migraines\u2014i.e., pulsating, jagged star-like phantoms in my
    visual field. If I encounter a lengthy article online which interests me, I am
    inclined to print it out, rather than torture my eyeballs for an extended period
    of time."
  created: '2012-03-20 19:31:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's what an e-reader is for. It's a pretty amazing feeling,\r\nhow calm
    and \"accommodating\" it is. In contrast emissive\r\nscreens are pretty much yelling
    \"Look at me!\" the whole time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-20 19:37:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The resolution of the new iPad screen is 264 dpi. Looking at it on the actual
    screen, the "sloppiness" of the "N" is barely visible. The impression is very
    similar to the way color laser prints look, except backlit. You can see certain
    artifacts if you look very closely, but otherwise not.
  created: '2012-03-20 19:46:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's interesting that you compare it to a color laser,\r\neven though it
    doesn't use subpixel rendering, right?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-20 19:49:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "As far as I can see it doesn't. Wouldn't really work as there is no \"correct\"
    orientation. \r\n\r\nI've noticed with color laser prints (the kind you see in
    short run printing for brochures, books, business cards, etc.) that if you look
    very closely you can see a very fine raster grid. That's what it looks like."
  created: '2012-03-20 20:02:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is no \"correct\" orientation. \r\n\r\nUnless the OS uses the screen's
    orientation to\r\noptimize the subpixeling... But the resolution\r\nis so high
    (at least for a large device = doesn't\r\nget held very close to the eyes) that
    it might\r\nnot matter too much.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-20 20:05:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I have read quite a few books on the iPad. The backlit screen hasn't been
    a problem for me, maybe because I'm used to reading on one all day at my desk.
    E-ink would probably be better, but worse for most other things I use it for.
    The weight is a bit of a problem, unless I can rest it on something. That's true
    of some books, too. I notice it most when reading in bed.
  created: '2012-03-26 14:38:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So I finally got a chance to check out an iPad3,\r\nand even with my 20/15
    vision I was impressed.\r\nAlthough I can detect a bit of strangeness in the\r\ntext
    rendering, since I don't expect most people\r\nto curl up with it for hours and
    read a book* I have\r\nto think it must be good enough. The fact that there's\r\na
    lot of real-estate means you can hold it at a decent\r\ndistance** and that makes
    the resolution effectively\r\nmuch higher. So I'm guessing that for a large device,\r\nabove
    250dpi is good enough.\r\n\r\n* The emissive nature of the screen is\r\nstill
    an obstacle I think. In contrast\r\ne-ink is much kinder.\r\n\r\n** In fact the
    notable weight means you\r\nhave to rest it somewhere soon enough.\r\n\r\nThere
    are other large devices with high resolution\r\nalready on the market, but my
    question now is: are\r\nthere any good analyses of when most people will\r\nstart
    seeing such screens in front of them most of\r\nthe day?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-26 19:57:04'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: If a font has poor hinting, it will look poor onscreen but look fine in print.
    Sometimes design applications change the way a font appears. Photoshop has four
    different anti-aliasing modes and each one changes the appearance of a font drastically.
    In Illustrator, if you create outlines, the font suddenly looks better, though
    it is thicker and darker when printed. Basically, when type is editable, that
    editablity seems to detract from its looks. The best looking type is the type
    that cannot be edited or selected or copied anymore. It's been flattened out somehow.
    Or printed.
  created: '2012-04-09 06:14:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"The best looking type is the type that cannot be edited or selected or
    copied anymore.\"\r\n\r\nHere we will have to disagree. Flattening the type into
    a graphic changes the rasterization model to a graphical one, which leads to bolder
    type. It also eliminates hinting. At screen resolutions, particularly at smaller
    sizes, I find these to be objectionable effects.\r\n\r\nHowever, I'll be the first
    to concede that some folks prefer this look. But most do not.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2012-04-10 18:14:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree with Thomas - my experience has been that type generally looks better
    before it's rasterized.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-10 18:21:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Where are you seeing type before it's rasterized? In your mind's eye?
  created: '2012-04-10 19:03:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good one.  :-)\r\nWhat I meant is \"flattened\" I guess.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-10 19:10:50'
- author:
    name: ilovedesign
    picture: 124073
  body: "Not really sure if this is the best venue to look for your sources. I do
    have to warn you to be careful with talking to some of the the \"experts\" out
    there. A lot of people have countless good experience to share regarding the topic,
    but not all are as experienced as they claim to be.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-24 08:48:36'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I used to think that I'd never want to use an iPad to read a book, but I
    discovered that it actually works pretty well for me.  \r\n\r\nI don't think there's
    much doubt that electronic books will gradually replace printed books (except
    perhaps for coffee-table books, etc.)."
  created: '2012-04-24 17:49:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "There are some of us for whom the electronic book will never replace the
    dead-tree versions\u2014at least in our hearts. Unfortunately, this may be simply
    another example of \u201CIf wishes were horses, beggars would ride.\u201D\r\n\r\nAmerican
    consumer culture appears to be oblivious to the burden-shifting that has been
    going on with most media. Instead of free television over the airwaves, we pay
    for internet access to \u201Cfree\u201D content. Book publishers can forgo the
    expense of printing books through electronic distribution. And, currently, there\u2019s
    a move afoot to absolve phone companies from the responsibility of maintaining
    landlines.\r\n\r\nVirtual reality indisputably has some good things going for
    it, but they ain\u2019t cheap.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-24 19:31:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Hrant: \u201C<em>but ~300dpi isn't even close to enough, even anti-aliased</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nReference?
    \r\n\r\nI\u2019m pretty sure this has been discussed, but from what I understand,
    based upon a few readings:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://prometheus.med.utah.edu/~bwjones/2010/06/apple-retina-display/\">A
    Jonesblog post about the Apple retina display</a>\r\n\u201C<em>According to a
    relatively recent, but authoritative study of photoreceptor density in the human
    retina (Curcio, C.A., K.R. Sloan, R.E. Kalina and A.E. Hendrickson 1990 Human
    photoreceptor topography. J. Comp. Neurol. 292:497-523.), peak cone density in
    the human averages 199,000 cones/mm2 with a range of 100,000 to 324,000.  Dr.
    Curcio et. al. calculated 77 cycles/degree or .78 arcminutes/cycle of *retinal*
    resolution.  However, this does not take into account the optics of the system
    which degrade image quality somewhat giving a commonly accepted resolution of
    1 arcminute/cycle.  So, if a normal human eye can discriminate two points separated
    by 1 arcminute/cycle at a distance of a foot, we should be able to discriminate
    two points 89 micrometers apart which would work out to about 287 pixels per inch</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe
    article it references: Curcio, C. A., Sloan, K. R., Kalina, R. E. & Hendrickson,
    A. E. (1990). Human photoreceptor topography. <em>Journal of Comparative Neurology,
    292</em>(40), 497-523. doi>10.1002/cne.902920402\r\n\r\n<strong>Abstract</strong>\r\n\u201C<em>We
    have measured the spatial density of cones and rods in eight wholemounted human
    retinas, obtained from seven individuals between 27 and 44 years of age, and constructed
    maps of photoreceptor density and between-individual variability. The average
    human retina contains 4.6 million cones (4.08\u20135.29 million). Peak foveal
    cone density averages 199,000 cones/mm2 and is highly variable between individuals
    (100,000\u2013324,000 cones/mm2). The point of highest density may be found in
    an area as large as 0.032 deg2. Cone density falls steeply with increasing eccentricity
    and is an order of magnitude lower 1 mm away from the foveal center. Superimposed
    on this gradient is a streak of high cone density along the horizontal meridian.
    At equivalent eccentricities, cone density is 40\u201345% higher in nasal compared
    to temporal retina and slightly higher in midperipheral inferior compared to superior
    retina. Cone density also increases slightly in far nasal retina. The average
    human retina contains 92 million rods (77.9\u2013107.3 million). In the fovea,
    the average horizontal diameter of the rod-free zone is 0.350 mm (1.25\xB0). Foveal
    rod density increases most rapidly superiorly and least rapidly nasally. The highest
    rod densities are located along an elliptical ring at the eccentricity of the
    optic disk and extending into nasal retina with the point of highest density typically
    in superior retina (5/6 eyes). Rod densities decrease by 15\u201325% where the
    ring crosses the horizontal meridian. Rod density declines slowly from the rod
    ring to the far periphery and is highest in nasal and superior retina. Individual
    variability in photoreceptor density differs with retinal region and is similar
    for both cones and rods. Variability is highest near the fovea, reaches a minimum
    in the midperiphery, and then increases with eccentricity to the ora serrata.
    The total number of foveal cones is similar for eyes with widely varying peak
    cone density, consistent with the idea that the variability reflects differences
    in the lateral migration of photoreceptors during development. Two fellow eyes
    had cone and rod numbers within 8% and similar but not identical photoreceptor
    topography</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd some quick web searching:\r\n\r\nhttp://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/vision/rodcone.html\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photoreceptor_cell#Humans\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that there simply a finite number of photoreceptors in the human eye. This
    is not a question of of good or bad science, but human physiology. You can cut
    an eye open, and count them. If there is something I am misunderstanding, please
    explain, as this is a topic I am quite interested in (sans line breaks please).\r\n\r\nAnd
    if the afore mentioned literature is correct, then obviously issues of rasterization
    and hinting are moot."
  created: '2012-04-24 19:41:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In practice however receptor density (in only one of our two retinas no less)
    is not the only factor to consider.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nToday, learn
    about the Armenian Genocide.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-24 20:29:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "What factors are you referring to when you claim \u201C\u2026~300dpi isn't
    even close to enough\u2026\u201D?"
  created: '2012-04-24 20:33:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Latest scientific evidence suggests that migrating birds can actually see
    earth\u2019s magnetic fields: no mention was made of resolution.\r\n\r\nToday's
    lesson: the Turks doubtless remember that episode in their history which they
    otherwise refuse to admit happened. The \u201Ccivilized world\u201D is hesitant
    to get involved in the current mess in Syria because a likely resultant civil
    war might lead to an autonomous or semi-autonomous Kurdish region in the south
    of the country. When combined with same in Iraq, events would likely unfold such
    that Turkey would feel compelled to quash a subsequent Kurdish separatist movement
    in an eerily familiar manner."
  created: '2012-04-24 21:41:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It's really interesting that many people think the appearance of a 264 dpi
    mobile reading device means light at the end of the tunnel as opposed to another
    light in a constellation of long-lasting possibilities. Low resolution still has
    a 20-year contract remaining.\r\n\r\nI also think, for thesis purposes, resolution
    and light source are kind of obvious targets while reader age and reader motivation
    have become significantly more important when you think about the shift from p
    to s.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-25 13:37:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, I'm still trying to figure you out... I agree with you about the contract,
    but then I don't get your stance that Apple-style hint-dumping is OK. Do you think
    that highly size-specific rendering (basically simulating a bitmap font) is the
    way to go, at least for lo-res screens? I'm all ears.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-25 14:30:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "To any type designer and foundry: Imagine this hypothetical business context:
    \r\n\r\na) <strong>IF</strong> at 300 DPI means resolution no longer matters,
    which would then result in no need to concern yourself with hinting (which from
    what I understand of the process would save a significant amount of time) would
    you charge less for the typeface because it took less time to complete?\r\n\r\nb)
    Would people who get paid to hint lose their jobs?"
  created: '2012-04-25 17:15:56'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Christopher,\r\n\r\nYour hypothetical scenario would raise the issue only
    if the end-user were aware of the diminished effort. Otherwise, fontmakers can
    silently join the corps of burden-shifters mentioned above."
  created: '2012-04-25 19:24:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Christopher:\r\n\r\nHinting is only a significant portion of the time involved
    in making a font if the font is hand-hinted. It's a distinct minority of fonts
    for which that has been the case, to date. So I don't expect that eliminating
    the need for it would cause prices to go down."
  created: '2012-04-25 23:25:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Christopher \u2014 Your first question presupposes that you are being charged
    explicitly for the hinting in the first place. \r\n\r\nDoes Pepsi Next cost less
    than other sodas, now that they don\u2019t have to add all that extra sugar?"
  created: '2012-04-26 01:04:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "CR: \"...would you charge less for the typeface because it took less time
    to complete?\"\r\n\r\nCustom font yes, retail font no.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-26 20:44:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@dberlow: \u201C<em>Custom font yes, retail font no</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nSo,
    sans hinting, for a retail market, we could hypothetically stand to make more
    money.\r\n\r\nIn a custom context, would you expect the profit margin to be higher,
    lower, no significant difference, or simply too hard to guess given the variety?"
  created: '2012-04-26 21:27:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "if a font is made for custom it is priced according to the cost of design.
    if a font is made for retail it is priced like all other fonts and we don't know
    if or when there will be a profit margin. if a font is made for the former and
    later released as the latter, we usually make something. \r\n\r\nit's also hard
    to compare because of both text vs display and webtype subscription vs FB licensing,
    furthermore by Webtype vs self-hosting options. and then finally, it's hard to
    compare because of what can be auto-hinted vs what can't auto-hinted. \r\n\r\nit
    goes without saying thay we'd rather not pass these complexities on to the broad
    market, treating hinting like kerning, and only doing it when it's useful, and
    not e.g. charging less for monospace fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-26 22:05:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Great answer. Thanks.
  created: '2012-04-26 22:36:31'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "David Berlow wrote:\r\n>Low resolution still has a 20-year contract remaining.\r\n\r\nYup.\r\nBut
    there's a lot of Rip Van Winkling going on. "
  created: '2012-04-30 01:44:56'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "@Thomas Phinney  and hrant:\r\n\r\nI don't think you understand what I was
    saying. What I meant was that when you flatten type it looks closer on screen
    to how it will print. While it's editable, in most apps the type is distorted.
    The kerning looks uneven and bad for one thing, until it is coverted to outlines
    or rasterized, and then suddenly - presto - it looks nice. That is it looks nice
    on screen, but not nicer if you print it. That's the paradox I was talking about."
  created: '2012-04-30 23:13:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@HP \"but then I don't get your stance that Apple-style hint-dumping is OK.\"\r\n\r\nOkay
    is relative. First, most of their platform is above 120 dpi, and second, the hintless
    rendering they do for screen is \"color\" compatible with the printed result.
    Compare and contrast.\r\n\r\n\"Do you think that highly size-specific rendering
    (basically simulating a bitmap font) is the way to go, at least for lo-res screens?\"\r\n\r\nThere
    is a best way to go, and there is a way to get somewhere, and they are not always
    the same. I think,the best way to go is to design and hint superpolateable fonts
    that render like Franky from super hints and can parametrically style for size,
    width and weight to compensate for everything from background color to dyslexia,
    but that's not yet the way to go. Clearer, I hope.\r\n\r\n@fontdesigner2 \"That's
    the paradox I was talking about.\"\r\n\r\nI think that is a superficial paradox,
    with acdeeper issue being that Adobe font technology is just not engineered to
    optimize the appearance of every type design for both print and screen from  the
    same source. "
  created: '2012-05-01 04:09:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Christopher wrote: \"What I meant was that when you flatten type it looks
    closer on screen to how it will print. While it's editable, in most apps the type
    is distorted.\"\r\n\r\nIt is distorted in ways that make it more legible. That's
    what hinting is and does: it sacrifices print-preview-style rendering in favor
    of making the rendering more legible, strokes more consistent, etcetera.\r\n\r\nYou're
    in a distinct minority in preferring the look on screen of type that has been
    converted to outlines. Not completely alone, but a small minority. Most users
    prefer type that is rasterized using font-specific rules and using hinting as
    well."
  created: '2012-05-07 01:08:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Thomas Phinney : I think you meant \u2014 fontdesigner2 wrote: \u201C<em>What
    I meant was that when you flatten type it looks closer on screen to how it will
    print. While it's editable, in most apps the type is distorted</em>.\u201D \r\n\r\nNot
    quite sure I recall saying that ;)"
  created: '2012-05-07 23:24:23'
date: '2012-03-14 21:52:18'
title: Print v Screen Typography

---
