---
author:
  name: dudefellow
body: "This is a new runic style font of the English Roman Alphabet.\r\nThe low resolution
  picture demonstrates a partial character set.\r\n\r\nYour genuine views on it would
  be appreciated."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very pointy terminals are problematic, both in\r\nterms of aesthetics and
    lo-resolution rendering.\r\n\r\nThe real test will come if/when you make darker
    weights.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-19 19:29:10'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: 'I can make any weight you want. Just let me know the ratio of height to thickness
    of the lines (and the ratio of height to width into the bargain) and I can make
    it for you upon provision of a commission. The font is a work in progress (how
    exciting) in a manner. If you purchase the basic alphabet as it stands now, you
    can have updates free. '
  created: '2012-03-19 19:33:39'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: As for the pointy terminals, especially on the A, I have broken the traditional
    rules, I know, but in fact this isn't supposed to be anything like the Roman typefaces
    we are familiar with and has its own strict rules of its own, imparting a kind
    of coherence of form. Runic style scripts present their own challenges in type
    design.
  created: '2012-03-19 19:38:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For something like Runic (unlike most writing\r\nsystems) it might make sense
    to have a set of\r\nskeletons that you can \"expand\" as needed, but\r\nthe problem
    you will still have is that the darker\r\nyou go the more the strokes start \"clotting\",
    and\r\nat varying rates depending on the angle they're\r\nat with each other.
    This requires what's called\r\n\"modulation\", which however is not too tricky.\r\nYou
    might even need trapping:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_trapping1.html\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of familiarity, I'm personally \"native\"\r\nwith three scripts, and I've
    worked on a number\r\nof invented systems* as well; however all that has\r\nonly
    reinforced certain beliefs concerning what\r\ntypes of forms humans like to look
    at and what\r\ncomputer screens like to render.\r\n\r\n* Just last month I finished\r\na
    font for the Shwa script.\r\nhttp://shwa.org/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-19 19:53:26'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Thank you hrant for your suggestions. I have thought about that problem of
    what you call \"clotting\". Because all of the lines in a runic font have to be
    straight, the risk of the internal spaces becoming too small at greater weights
    is high compared to scripts where this can be overcome by convex curves, which
    tend to increase the apparent angle between the lines and thereby avoid the need
    for trapping. Another solution that can help a little is to widen the runes at
    greater weights. This would cause a departure from the mostly monospaced font
    (apart from the I) to proportional. Obviously there are limits to the thickness
    of the lines in any font, but especially in a runic style. Other than from pen
    with ink on paper chirographic reasons, we might even speculate that some of the
    reason for the development of rounded lines from the originally straight ones
    of the early Etruscan, Greek and Phoenician systems could be to increase legibility
    and uniformity of the interior and exterior spacing.\r\n\r\nI looked at the Shwa
    system of writing that you linked to. I'll go through it in detail in time, but
    I recognise the concepts involved and am interested because I happen to have designed
    myself what I consider to be the best featural phonographic system of writing
    in the World, that is based on principles some of which are similar to those that
    the Shwa uses, and is capable of hundreds of phonograms adapted to phonetic representation
    of global languages. I have been writing a book about it."
  created: '2012-03-19 20:19:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Always interesting to hear of such efforts.\r\n\r\nIn the case of Shwa, I
    was commissioned to make a font\r\nmostly because its inventor was wary of being
    able to\r\nimplement the requisite typographic sensitivity. Runic's\r\nforms are
    less complex so the learning curve is probably\r\nsufficiently manageable - mostly
    one needs to develop a\r\ngrasp of the stroke modulation at acute joins.\r\n\r\nIs
    your own invented system made up only of lines?\r\n\r\n> we might even speculate
    that some of the\r\n> reason for the development of rounded lines\r\n\r\nIn fact
    during the development of the Shwa font I\r\nmade some suggestions of structural
    improvements,\r\nalthough the motivation was typographic; I'd say that\r\nabout
    half my suggestions were accepted. However my\r\none suggestion of changing a
    line to a curve was not...\r\nApparently that would have violated some important\r\nelement
    of linguistic logic particular to Shwa.\r\n\r\nSo, invented scripts can evolve
    too!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-19 20:29:36'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: ">Is your own invented system made up only of lines?\r\n\r\nEvery system of
    writing for spoken languages in use as far a I know is made up of lines, or is
    linear, for the practical reason of needing to be writing with a pen. (We can
    exclude stamps as practical systems for all purposes, and cuneiform because it
    is no longer used.) If perhaps you meant \"straight\" lines, the answer is that
    the system is designed to be executed solely by straight lines if technology and
    medium requires this, but is capable of being written and easily recognised even
    with curved lines and is very versatile from the typographic point of view, because
    its graphemes are based on perceptual principles that allow all reasonable kinds
    of distortions without affecting their identities. "
  created: '2012-03-19 20:48:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting. Please do keep me informed!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-19 21:16:41'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "I am the kind of person who is reluctant to give things away and I like to
    phrase things like puzzles because people appreciate knowledge better when they
    work things out themselves given a few hints, and I do not think it is feasible
    to start pasting parts of my book here. It has a few hundred pages and is still
    in progress. I can say that I believe from what I have seen so far that my system
    looks more acceptable and is more ingenious (if I may say so myself) than other
    phonetic featural systems, including the Shwa. The system when it is used as an
    alphabet does not look so different from that from which the western alphabets
    are descended, and therefore should become culturally acceptable. If I explain
    the system of writing that I have devised, one might even begin to wonder whether
    it is the source of those alphabets. When I designed the ideal system of writing
    I based it not intentionally on any preceding system, but rather on reasonable
    principles to suit all requirements, and arrived at a system similar to the first
    true alphabet, which I did not know at the time. I designed it by this processes:
    I would make a first prototype and then ask \"can it be improved in any way?\"
    and if it could be improved, no matter in how small a way, I would make that improvement
    and then ask again \"is there any other way in which this next stage can be improved,
    even just a tiny bit?\" and so on until perfection is reached. A stage is reached
    where another might stop and be content thinking \"this is good\", but even then
    I did not stop searching for something better, even until the stage of perfection
    being reached. I have not changed the system for at least eight years and have
    continued to tax my mind to think of an improvement without being able to find
    any. The intention in the design process was the elimination of arbitrariness,
    the elimination of creativity, in favour of obeying what is right or correct in
    every little choice that is made.\r\n\r\nWhen I have made the font I can show
    it to you. I have designed all of the formal characters and worked out their constructions
    by Euclidean geometry. Even in the glyphs themselves, there is something to be
    astounded by."
  created: '2012-03-19 21:52:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I certainly agree with you concerning the offering of puzzles!\r\n\r\nBest
    of luck with that project.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-19 22:09:41'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Just some clarifications, with the risk of sounding like a one-man conversation
    .\r\n\r\nBraille is an example of a system of writing that is not linear. Incidentaly,
    I have also designed a phonetic featural system of writing made of dots like Braille.\r\n\r\nSome
    more information about my ideal system of writing: some of the phonetic features
    represented graphically in my ideal system of writing include:\r\nPlace of articulation,
    anterior versus posterior and everything in between\r\nmanner of articulation,
    e.g. aperture, nasality, form of the tongue\r\nvowels: position on the formant
    chart, front versus back, high versus low (subtly), centrality, rounding\r\nSuprasegmental
    features: stress and duration\r\n\r\nNow, back to the runic font displayed in
    this discussion.\r\nThe issue of the pointy tips has been of concern to me. Sharp
    angles between lines behave in the aesthetic sense somewhat similarly to curved
    lines, in that between both curved lines and corners there needs to be smaller
    spaces than between parallel straight lines, which is of course why we need kerning
    (yet to be addressed). For curved lines it is acceptable to ascend below the baseline
    or above the meanline, but for pointed corners ascent above the topline or below
    the baseline seems not to be common practice, even though for perceptual reasons
    it ought to be as necessary as for curved lines. The result therefore of the pointed
    lines not protruding above or below is illusory manifestation of an uneven baseline
    or topline (I don't talk about the meanline anymore because the runic script does
    not have ascenders or descenders), which can become real at low resolutions. That
    is one problem (hold it in mind). But a runic script is not designed for pixel
    displays, it is adapted for being carved. For reeader-friendly electronic display,
    we are better using a different style than runeiform. Runic is perhaps not the
    most readable, but it has its own kind of aesthetic.\r\n\r\nYou suggested fixing
    the dark spaces at corners where there is a small angle between lines, by trapping
    or modulation. As regards trapping, I do not want to disturb the precise geometry,
    but I have been thinking that this problem could be circumvented by avoiding excessively
    small angles between lines. What is the shallowest angle that could be allowed
    before trapping is required? In my opinion, the problem of clotting between lines
    should depend only on the angle between them and not on their thickness or weight.
    I think that any angle less than about thirty degrees would start to cause problems
    of this kind.\r\n\r\nI have been thinking that both of these problems could be
    addressed partially by special hinting for the low resolutions, without disrupting
    the precise geometrical ideal (think 2001 Space Odyssey monolith precision). Maybe
    something like a ClearType encoding. A ClearType would work best for the shallow
    angles and pointy tips aligned with the vertical elements in the display screen.
    Shallow angles and sharp corners aligned with the horizontal would be more problematic,
    but we can avoid them by appealing to a narrow style of width. In fact, perhaps
    contrary to intuitions of some, increasing the weight of the lines in the runic
    style, while holding the widths constant, should increase the angles between the
    vertical and oblique lines, rather than decrease them, and therefore might even
    improve the issue of clotting there. What do you think about this possibility?\r\n\r\nAs
    regards modulation: Did you mean variation of the thicknesses of the lines depending
    on their slope, or did you mean subtle variation of the thickness within straight
    lines such that they become slightly lighter as they approach corners? The first
    is not intended, as this is not supposed to be a style resembling calligraphic
    forms. The second is not ideal, probably even ugly.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-20 12:17:31'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: ">seems not to be common practice\r\n\r\nWithin the sample given that is.\r\n\r\nIt
    looks as though the S is falling forward, doesn't it?"
  created: '2012-03-20 22:01:34'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Another way in which runic differs from Roman is that in the latter the curvature
    of the bowls at the top or base line tends to be about the same for all such letters
    and therefore their protrusion can be the same, but in the runic style the acuity
    of the corners varies with the angles between the lines, and we would expect that
    the corners with the smaller angles should protrude to a greater extent than the
    other corners. This leads to an interesting question (interesting to me at least)
    of how the extent of protrusion should vary as a function of the angle between
    the lines of the corner and the inclination at which that corner angle approaches
    the top or baseline. It would be interesting to know whether there have been any
    experiments done on this kind of perception. I could use artistic judgement, but
    I would like the font to be designed in such a way as it would satisfy other people
    and that is why I am asking for your opinions. I put this out as a kind of testing
    of the ice, as there would be little point in designing a large font only to find
    when it is finished that its users could point out several holes in it before
    having to go back and tweak it. I made the font in a single day (except the R
    which I changed a bit the next day). But of course, I couldn't commission anyone
    else to do it, because then it is I who would probably be the one who would not
    like the result.\r\n\r\nPerhaps this sounds somewhat unconventional, but instead
    of thinking of the bowls or angular corners protruding, would it be acceptable
    to say that it is rather the vertical stems that can be cut back. According to
    relativity the concept should be the same. I would be more willing to chop the
    ends of the vertical stems down to size than vary the sizes of the oblique lines.
    But this approach should only be acceptable if the extent of protrusion, so to
    speak, of the oblique corners would be uniform throughout the font irrespective
    of the sharpness or size of the angle. What I am implying is that a kind of \"best
    compromise\" fixed and absolutely level (although not necessarily apparently even)
    extreme for all pointed terminals and corners might work better, with the lengths
    of the vertical stems somewhat less than the distance between those boundaries?\r\n\r\nAny
    ideas on this by analogy to how the Roman letters A, M, N, V, W have been tackled
    in other fonts? Truncation of the corners is out of the question.\r\n\r\nI would
    not mind to end the soliloquy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-21 19:37:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It <em>is</em> an interesting question (at least to anybody\r\ninterested
    in the quantification of design). I'm not\r\naware of any published quantitative
    studies; Peter\r\nKarow might have done something in this sphere.\r\nHey, you
    should work on formalizing it yourself!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-21 22:19:00'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "\r\nThanks Hrant for that mention of the experimental work of Peter Karow
    on overshoots for bowls.\r\n\r\nSince I first posted it here, I have left the
    Runic English font as a project on the shelf, by not yet making further adjustments
    to it, because it is not my primary motivation, but rather really only an offshoot
    of my principle task. The task of an alphabet is a relatively small one, which
    I could do for someone when it is demanded.\r\n\r\nHrant, when you suggested \r\n\r\n\"you
    should work on formalizing it yourself\"\r\n\r\nI initially put some thought into
    the question, reconsidering design strategies that I had rejected at earlier stages
    of the inception of the font, the considerable thought and calculation that went
    into the precise letterforms so that I knew exactly what I would be doing by the
    time of production of the font software itself; I considered such routes to the
    problem as centres of gravity, and expansion of inlines, which did not seem to
    offer solutions. So I abandoned those approaches in favour of shortening the vertical
    stems relatively to the corners of the oblique lines. But it is only recently
    that I have begun again the design of a runic font, this time continuing one of
    the styles for the ideal system of writing that I have mentioned.\r\n\r\nI have
    made many of the letterforms for the ideal system of writing now and let you see
    a very select number of them for inspection. As I am still adding the letterforms,
    I have not departed from a monospaced font, so the spacing between letters has
    yet to be tuned. The weight is slightly thicker than in the particular example
    from the Runic English font shown above. Runic letterforms are generally expected
    to have quite thin lines to look as though they were stratched with the tip of
    a sharp pointed implement. In any case, narrower lines for them are necessary
    because of the tighter enclosed spaces, for example, in such Futhark runes as
    Mannaz.\r\n\r\nAs for clotting and modulation of the kind akin to trapping, I
    think that the only way to encorporate this to my satisfaction into the runic
    font would be to depart to a space of non-Euclidean hyperbolically curved geometry.\r\n\r\nAs
    for overshoot for pointed corners, I have worked out a method for calculating
    how to design the glyphs to have a desired extent of overshoot as a function of
    the angle between the lines in question and their thickness, and a variable adjustable
    to taste. Formulae such as these could be used for making glyphs of varying overshoot
    to be used in experiments, assessments or judgements by perception of when the
    baselines or toplines appear to seem even or level. \r\n\r\nDespite being now
    able to choose the overshoot, which I include for some lateral corners, I have
    clung to the idea to chopping off parts of the termini of the vertical stems in
    order to make them appear to be more on the same level as the corners of the oblique
    lines. This solution seems to be acceptably adequate and elegant in the case of
    the runic style, where horizontal lines are supposed to be forbidden, possibly
    even at the outlines.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you could offer your experienced opinions
    on their merits from the typographic point of view. If I may offer my opinion,
    I would say that I am creating certainly one of the better runic fonts of the
    few that I have managed to see. Many of the runic fonts already in existence seem
    to me to be quite incoherent, and often quite wrong. Those of Daniel Steven Smith
    I find admirable, and offer something different; as you can see I have not used
    them as an inspiration. I think that the academic world of runologists needs a
    systematic font and one that is not too closely based on and associated with a
    system from a fantasy fiction, for proprietary reasons alone.\r\n\r\nThe font
    that I am creating is to be more standardised, containing up to hundreds of runes,
    and my system is not limited to runes. This is a far greater number than can be
    alotted to the Unicode standard slots assigned for the Futhark and related runes,
    at Runic Unicode range 16A0-16ff. Currently, I am using one of the private use
    ranges, but for many years I have been interested in and quietly contemplating
    seeking a dedicated Unicode range for my ideal system of writing. How could someone
    go about that application; are many supporters required to attain that? I should
    hardly need to argue for the superlative nature of this ideal system of writing.
    Anyone with sense will be able to see that clearly. After all, as far as I know,
    it is the best glottographic system of writing in the World, and may turn out
    to be of some historical importance.\r\n\r\nIf some would like to be able to use
    the font, or influence what runes and weights and measures will be included with
    it, perhaps some source of funding could be suggested. I have added dozens and
    dozens of runes, and although I have made designs for each of the Futhark runes,
    I have not yet bothered to add equivalents of all of them to the font, even though
    it is very tempting to do so. And the rest I might keep for myself for a while,
    using the excuse of how controversial they might be. I hope a certain amount of
    hyperbole is a good form of promotion.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DKrunesExampleJPEG_4987.jpg]"
  created: '2012-07-29 01:14:27'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "An example of the Runic English font in use [See image DKRunicEnglishFontRingPNG_5524.jpg].\r\n\r\nThe
    letters were modulated somewhat by the transformation.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DKRunicEnglishFontRingPNG_5524.jpg]"
  created: '2012-09-01 21:13:00'
date: '2012-03-19 18:54:44'
files:
- filename: TextPhotoBackground1.JPG
  uri: public://old-images/TextPhotoBackground1.JPG
node_type: forum
title: New Runic font

---
