---
author:
  name: fonthausen
  picture: 110499
body: ' Hi guys, <BR>I thing this might be a very importent topic for typedesigners
  now and in the future &#40; in 2-3 generations most people will probably only read
  from monitor and displays&#41;: <BR> <BR>::::::::: How will reading develop? <BR>
  <BR>:::::::::: What are or will be the most influencial factors for this change,
  if a change happens? <BR> <BR>:::::::::: What influences on type will it have?  <BR>
  <BR>:::::::::: Will we see more Sansserif or serif type, if so, why?  <BR> <BR>::::::::::
  How much does this depend on the development of technology? &#40;HiRes monitors
  e.g.&#41; <BR> <BR>I would like to hear your opinions, or maybe you have questions
  yourself. <BR> <BR>Jacques <BR> <BR>PS: automatically the question arises: how could
  ultimate redable type look like in the future? '
comments:
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: 'Maybe this is a nice intro &#40;I got the link from <A HREF="http://www.linesandsplines.com/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.linesandsplines.com/</A> &#40;thanks Andy!!&#41;: <BR>
    <BR><A HREF="http://www.merlin.ubc.ca/people/JMax/Typo/survival.html" TARGET="_top">http://www.merlin.ubc.ca/people/JMax/Typo/survival.html</A>
    <BR> <BR>jacques'
  created: '2002-01-10 15:45:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Interesting thread/questions. <BR> <BR>Maybe the hardest thing to predict
    is how much future generations will &#42;care&#42; about reading/readability &#40;and
    that&#39;s not saying the current generation cares enough&#41;. But for the moment
    I&#39;ll ignore the underlying cultural motivations/obstacles &#40;as interesting
    as they are to consider&#41; and assume that future generations will &#91;nominally&#93;
    care enough to implement non-trivial methods: <BR> <BR>&#62; How will reading
    develop? <BR> <BR>Reading will be heavily assisted: you will be primarily shown
    what &#91;you&#39;re told to think&#93; you&#39;re interested in. Which means
    more efficiency, but at the cost of exposure to new/unexpected things: narrower
    but deeper thought. Dangerous. <BR> <BR>&#62; What are or will be the most influencial
    factors for this change, if a change happens? <BR> <BR>Media will increasingly
    be controlled by large corporations, which will assimilate smaller, more liberal
    entities, subsequently posing on the surface as providing an alternative to those
    who feel they need an alternative. The small media players which manage to survive
    will never make a real difference. Until, of course, the Great Revolution. <BR>
    <BR>So, because for the forseeable future reading will be controlled by corporations,
    we will become less rounded people. <BR> <BR>&#62; What influences on type will
    it have? <BR> <BR>A given type design will be more software, less highly designed
    beziers: a font will be able to adapt its x-height, width, color, etc. automatically
    depending on the reading conditions. How these conditions are conveyed is another
    matter. <BR> <BR>There will be fewer text faces in actual use. <BR>But just as
    many display faces. <BR> <BR>&#62; Will we see more Sansserif or serif type, if
    so, why? <BR> <BR>Display: Almost no serifs. <BR> <BR>Text: We will see more flare-serif
    and semi-serif designs. I&#39;m not sure why I said that. <BR> <BR>&#62; How much
    does this depend on the development of technology? <BR> <BR>Serifs depend on resolution.
    As we&#39;re waiting for enough resolution, more and more people will think &#40;incorrectly&#41;
    that it&#39;s OK to use sans for long texts. <BR> <BR>&#62; how could ultimate
    redable type look like in the future? <BR> <BR>Instead of moving your eyes around,
    you will look directly at a fixed spot on a dynamic medium &#40;like a screen,
    or &#34;active&#34; paper&#41;, and you&#39;ll use small movements of your hand/fingers
    &#40;or maybe small &#34;symbolic&#34; eye movements&#41; to trigger saccades/regressions.
    You might indicate the size of the saccade/regression through degree of movement,
    or the system could learn and adapt to your reading ability, and coupled with
    the bouma-difficulty of the text at hand &#40;meaning its ease of decipherability&#41;,
    will guess how far to saccade/regress. At first you&#39;ll go slow, your hand
    taking a while to do what it needs, but eventually there will be an instantaneous
    connection between your eyes, brain and hand, enabling you to read much faster
    and for much longer &#40;thanks to near-total lack of saccades&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-11 00:52:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; <A HREF="http://www.merlin.ubc.ca/people/JMax/Typo/survival.html" TARGET="_top">http://www.merlin.ubc.ca/people/JMax/Typo/survival.html</A>
    <BR> <BR>I found this article to be narrow-minded and uninspiring. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-01-11 17:10:54'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hrant:  <BR> <BR>I would agree.  <BR> <BR>Robert Bringhurst has much more
    to offer on the subject, of course, in his book, &#34;The Elements of Typographic
    Style.&#34;  <BR> <BR>&#40;<A HREF="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0881791326/inktomi-bkasin-20/103-2474988-0468653"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0881791326/inktomi-bkasin-20/103-2474988-0468653</A>&#41;  <BR>
    <BR>Highly recommended, for those who have not yet discovered this excellent reference.  <BR>
    <BR>Also useful: &#34;A History of Graphic Design&#34; by Philip B. Meggs  <BR>
    <BR>&#40;<A HREF="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0471291986/ref=pd_sxp_elt_l1/103-2474988-0468653"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0471291986/ref=pd_sxp_elt_l1/103-2474988-0468653</A>&#41;  <BR>
    <BR>David'
  created: '2002-01-11 18:54:04'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' Just a thought: <BR>If Open Type and its offspring will open the possibility
    of dynamic, maybe even intelligent type, might it not be possible that characters
    and words could melt together, creating a new kind of silhouette/bouma based reading?
    &#40;I mean a kind of ligaturing which goes beyond the typical combined two, max.
    three character forms&#41;.  <BR> <BR>Jacques <BR> <BR>Text would need less space! '
  created: '2002-01-11 21:41:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; characters and words could melt together, creating a new kind of silhouette/bouma
    based reading? <BR> <BR>You&#39;re fast. It took me a few months of rolling the
    concept of boumas around my head before I myself came up with this idea! <BR>
    <BR>Basically: <BR>We should be designing words, not letters. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-11 23:20:49'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' &#62; We should be designing words, not letters. <BR> <BR>Will that give
    us similarities with chinese/japanese writting, glyphs and signs?  <BR> <BR>If
    so, it could influence our way of reading, speaking and communicating. Because
    it then will be based on images, not language. That is pretty un-western like!!!!
    <BR> <BR>Jacques '
  created: '2002-01-12 15:09:40'
- author:
    name: ricardo
    picture: 110416
  body: ' If we want to have good readability the solution is have a good legibility
    in each letter to creat good apperence for the reader &#40; form, space, unity
    betten letters to creat words&#41; without visual noise or interferences but it&#39;s
    depend of the principal function of that type. And when we want to use one letter
    only for a trademark? <BR> <BR>&#62; Words are composed by lettes so we designing
    letters to compose words or not. <BR> <BR>To continue the first idea of Jacques,
    how far is gonna be the globalization of the world to transform all languages
    in one? How many country&#39;s and cultures will survive to all this big and historical
    transformations of language?  <BR> <BR>Ricardo '
  created: '2002-01-13 03:12:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Will that give us similarities with chinese/japanese writting, glyphs
    and signs? <BR> <BR>That&#39;s an interesting way of looking at it. But the difference
    is that Latin &#40;or any alphabetic system&#41; has the advantage of being decomposable:
    you can &#34;compile and vocalize&#34; any new/unknown word and possibly know
    what it means if you&#39;ve heard it before; in a logography &#40;like Chinese&#41;
    you have to  basically learn the glyph as it stands. The often ignored beauty
    of Chinese is that it&#39;s the only way to have one written language for the
    many spoken languages in the huge, multi-faceted society that is China. You realize
    this when you watch a Chinese TV show, and start wondering why it&#39;s subtitled
    in Chinese too... I used to work in a small company with employees from Mainland,
    Taiwan and Hong Kong, and they had to talk English to one another - but they would
    &#42;read&#42; the same script fine! <BR> <BR>Then there&#39;s syllabaries, like
    the Kana component&#40;s&#41; of Japanese, and although there&#39;s a lot less
    syllables to learn &#40;than complete logographs in Chinese&#41;, and although
    syllabic writing has the didactic advantage of being very close to actual speech,
    it still doesn&#39;t enjoy the abstraction of alphabetic systems. <BR> <BR>And
    &#42;then&#42; there&#39;s the rare bird that is Hangul &#40;Korean&#41;, which
    is an alphabetic syllabary &#40;it encodes syllables, but the component alphabetics
    are visible and decomposable &#34;inside&#34;&#41;, so it enjoys the best of both
    worlds. And what&#39;s the most amazing thing about Hangul? It&#39;s an entirely
    man-made writing system &#40;invented about 500 years ago&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    it then will be based on images, not language. <BR> <BR>But I&#39;d say that &#91;immersive&#93;
    reading &#40;in any system&#41; is basically image-based anyway. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    the solution is have a good legibility in each letter <BR> <BR>But in immersive
    &#40;high-speed&#41; reading the details of a letter are a lot less important
    than some of its &#34;global&#34; features &#40;like ascenders/descenders&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; how far is gonna be the globalization of the world to transform
    all languages in one? <BR> <BR>That&#39;s a very interesting -and equally worrisome-
    question. I just hope that more people start seeing cultural imperialism for the
    dangers it poses. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-13 04:35:17'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' i just thought of a problem:  <BR>&#62;&#62; If, theoreticly, something
    like charactermelting might happen, what will then happen in the eastern european
    countries for example? They are also using latin signs, but combined with a lot
    of accents! It might become difficult to assign optically accents to forms/glyphs,
    resulting from the melting of characters.  <BR> <BR>I tried to compare the charactermelting
    to chinese signs and glyphs. Maybe we could also compare, to a certain degree,
    the arabic written languages. <BR> <BR>&#62; how far is gonna be the globalization
    of the world to transform all languages in one? <BR> <BR>That will probably depends
    if it will influence handwritting and the development of language &#40;e.g esperanto&#41;.  <BR>And
    even if character will melt together, each will still have to be typed and therefore
    will it influence the reading, not the languages. The melting will be done by
    software. That is to say, if al this won&#39;t end up in a kind of &#42;steno&#42;
    &#40; the short language secretary use to shorten down dicted text&#41;.  <BR>
    <BR>Jacques '
  created: '2002-01-13 18:18:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; charactermelting <BR> <BR>Just to check: I assume you mean when letters
    combine to compose a readable bouma &#40;word shape&#41;? <BR> <BR>&#62; It might
    become difficult to assign optically accents to forms/glyphs, resulting from the
    melting of characters. <BR> <BR>You lost me - what exactly is the problem? <BR>
    <BR>&#62; arabic <BR> <BR>Arabic is an interesting case. It has the distinct advantage
    of having different shapes for a letter depending on where they are in a word.
    When typeset properly -avoiding large gaps in words that contain &#34;non-followable&#34;
    &#40;?&#41; letters, like the &#34;daal&#34;- the boumas are wonderful. It&#39;s
    harder to learn, but easier to read immersively. <BR> <BR>&#62; That will probably
    depends if it will influence handwritting <BR> <BR>I think handwriting has almost
    no relevance now &#40;in terms of the evolution of scripts&#41;, and in the next
    generations it will become much like a funny hobby - like somebody today who does
    woodcarving: &#34;Oh, that&#39;s so cute!&#34; <BR> <BR>&#62; each will still
    have to be typed <BR> <BR>Why? <BR> <BR>&#62; The melting will be done by software
    <BR> <BR>How, exactly? <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-13 18:40:16'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' &#62; charactermelting  <BR>&#62;&#62;Just to check: I assume you mean when
    letters combine to compose a readable bouma &#40;word shape&#41;? <BR>&#62;&#62;&#62;
    Maybe that is not the right expression, but what could the right expression be?
    Word shape, logographic typesetting, fluent type, textlogo??? <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;
    It might become difficult to assign optically accents to forms/glyphs, resulting
    from the melting of characters. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; When characters have none
    or minimal white spacing, accents might overlap the next descender or ascender
    for example. This could happen as well in a word shape based type.  <BR> <BR>
    <BR>&#62; each will still have to be typed  <BR>&#62;&#62;&#62; we were talking
    about readabilty. Not about the act of writting or typing. Unless in the future
    spoken language will be record 100% and converted into text, or maybe even thoughts
    being translated into digital information. There will have to be a way to put
    te information in computers. So actually we could now talk about the future of
    the keyboard, but that is a whole different chapter, or not!? <BR> <BR>&#62; The
    melting will be done by software  <BR>&#62;&#62;How, exactly? <BR>If the keyboard
    and writting pad will stay a while, the text will still have to be typed, written
    &#40;even if there will be word recognizing software, like on your mobile phone&#41;.
    The software I am talking about, will probably be similar to ATM, or the Open
    Type software. Which will &#42;intelligently&#42; produced the word shapes on
    your display. <BR> <BR>Jacques '
  created: '2002-01-13 22:28:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; what could the right expression be? <BR> <BR>I use &#34;bouma&#34;,
    which is a simplification of &#34;Bouma-shape&#34;&#42;, in honor of &#91;retired&#93;
    Dutch psychologist Herman Bouma, the only person to really analyze word shapes
    to any interesting depth. <BR> <BR>&#42; Apparently coined by either Saenger or
    Taylor, nobody seems to know, not even Bouma himself... <BR> <BR>&#62; accents
    might overlap the next descender or ascender <BR> <BR>I guess that&#39;s another
    reason why a good text face has a small x-height &#40;pretty close to 55% of ascender,
    with descender being 50-75% of ascenders minus x&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62; will &#42;intelligently&#42;
    produced the word shapes on your display. <BR> <BR>But where will this intelligence
    come from? The programmer, or the type designer? <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-13 22:40:28'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: '&#62; But where will this intelligence come from? The programmer, or the
    type designer? <BR> <BR>You got me there. That is why I put &#42;intelligently&#42;
    in brackets, because it actually isn&#39;t the right term.  <BR>Of course, the
    type designer should tell the way things happen. &#40;welcome in typo&#39;topia!&#41;
    Which means that the type designer should think of all possibilities, if possible,
    and then programm the stuff himself or he should let it programm. <BR> <BR>Programming???
    You probably know or heard about all the things Open Type should make possible,
    but it still will have to be programmed, and the glyphs will have to be all designed
    and drawn. So at the end, the designer should, like I said before, think of all
    possibilities an problems.  <BR> <BR>Alternativ Idea&#62; If the offspring of
    Open type will have increased possibilities such as GX type had for example, or
    MM, fonts could become semi-intelligent &#40;Mmmh....&#41;, maybe predictable
    is the better expression, in the future. If so, type design might not be the design
    of glyphs whih work well together anymore &#40;to put it very crude&#41;, but
    as noted before, the design of words, maybe even texts. Which means a type designer
    will have to think in an extra dimension: Bouma. &#40;Note: today and in the past
    designer also worked with the bouma principle. But instead of building the words
    out of quantified units, characters, in the theory we are speaking of now, the
    quantum units will be part of a puzzle, of which the pieces won&#39;t be interchangeable.
    Woven together. &#40;&#62;&#62; we could call this the choas theory of type, hihihihi&#62;
    Splines with predictable behaviour which function as carriers to glyphs. &#40;As
    if you put a metal glyph on a piece of metal, and bend this piece of metal to
    make the glyph fit into whatever...&#41; <BR> <BR>Jacques'
  created: '2002-01-14 10:59:59'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' We have been talking now a lot about this bouma effect, but this is only
    one idea. Maybe someone would like to make a different prediction about readability
    and type in the future? <BR> <BR>Jacques '
  created: '2002-01-16 08:53:32'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: ' 5{ng note: while there are hiragana and katakana keyboards, most japanese
    typing is done with romanji. The computer then swaps the roman characters for
    the japanese sylables. I would envision english word-glyphs to work in much the
    same way. <BR> <BR>cr '
  created: '2002-01-16 13:48:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I would envision english word-glyphs to work in much the same way.
    <BR> <BR>I guess you mean phonetically? Great idea - that would actually greatly
    reduce the English spelling mess too &#40;with some smart software&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-16 15:59:02'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' &#62; if al this won&#39;t end up in a kind of &#42;steno&#42; &#40; the
    short language secretary use to shorten down dicted text&#41;. <BR>Maybe a steno-like
    keyboard would help here. <BR> <BR>Or a common keyboard, aided by software like
    the one on your mobile phone '
  created: '2002-01-16 16:20:57'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: ' Not phonetically. I just meant that the word glyphs would glum together
    after they were typed, much like ligatures do now. The Pseudo-phonetic spellings
    in english actually adds a lot to readability. What&#39;s more, the evolutionary
    model that drives our writing would never move that way, especially with the influence
    of foreign and commercial words. '
  created: '2002-01-16 19:29:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I just meant that the word glyphs would glum together after they were
    type much like ligatures do now. <BR> <BR>Oh, OK. <BR>BTW, OpenType makes this
    possible &#42;now&#42;. <BR> <BR>I was thinking that you type what a word sounds
    like, and the software spells for you. <BR> <BR>&#62; The Pseudo-phonetic spellings
    in english actually adds a lot to readability. <BR> <BR>1. I don&#39;t see how
    &#40;but maybe&#41;. <BR>2. It certainly does &#42;not&#42; help legibility, and
    especially not learning. <BR> <BR>&#62; the evolutionary model that drives our
    writing would never move that way, especially with the influence of foreign and
    commercial words. <BR> <BR>? <BR>How does Spanish manage? <BR> <BR>&#34;Evolution&#34;
    in writing is largely exagerated. There&#39;s a lot more conscious decision-making
    going on than many care to admit. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-16 19:39:54'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: ' English orthography helps readabiltity in the following way: Instead of
    one posible combination of characters for any given sound, there are many. For
    example, &#34;night&#34; is more easily distinguished from &#34;mite&#34; than
    mit from nit. It does make it harder to learn, though. <BR> <BR>As for evolution:
    of course there are concious decisions made, but there are so many by so many
    different people, that the results tend to be very organic. The characteristics
    of change in writing are very similar to other complex network, one of which is
    biological evolution. Obviously there are differences, but the point in this case
    is that certain things have to happen for a sign to be adopted into a community.
    In korea there was a central figure that dictated a new writing system. In our
    capitolist society there are big descision makers, &#40;bill gates could probably
    do a lot to change writing if he had a mind to&#41; but even there, changes have
    to bleed into the community. It parallels evolution in that different signs compete
    for use. Writing signs that are used more prolifically tend to enter into a positive
    feedback loop that spreads them throughout the system, much in the same way that
    animals that are more fit then create more offspring until they fill their niche.
    A good example of this evolution is the advent of typing signs like :-&#41; Obviously
    someone somewhere thought of the smiley, but something had do happen for it to
    seep into the communal conscience. <BR> <BR>The real questions then are, what
    are the characteristics that make one way of writing more fit than another? There
    are political, social, economic, aesthetic, and physical considerations &#40;and
    I&#39;m sure a lot more&#41;. <BR> <BR>About spanish: there is an academy in Spain
    that makes rules for everything. In my opinion, they are loosing credibility--
    why should their only be one right way to do things, and who are they do decide?
    My prediction is that spanish along with english will become more diverse in its
    spellings as they adopt words from other places, and as commercial creative spellings
    become more common. Even spellings of Spanish names are being changed &#40;to
    be cool? I don&#39;t know why&#41;. It is common, for example to substitute th
    for t. &#40;thalia, liseth&#41; even though it is still pronounced the same way. '
  created: '2002-01-17 01:19:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' You make a good argument. <BR> <BR>&#62; changes have to bleed into the
    community. <BR> <BR>Totally agreed. <BR>Many reform efforts have failed because
    they were too top-down. <BR> <BR>&#62; what are the characteristics that make
    one way of writing more fit than another? <BR> <BR>Yes, that&#39;s a very interesting
    question. And what I like most about it is that it doesn&#39;t resign to a fatalistic
    view of a course of evolution that can&#39;t be affected by humans. <BR> <BR>There
    are ways to improve writing, even if it usually seems like such an uphill battle.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; there is an academy in Spain that makes rules for everything. <BR>
    <BR>But there&#39;s something else. Unlike English, Spanish has a precedent for
    &#34;correct&#34; spelling, so when importing/creating a word there&#39;s every
    reason and motivation to keep things logical. One could say that the Academy isn&#39;t
    laughed out of existence because Spanish pronunciation/spelling is already highly
    sensical as it currently stands. English is already such a mess that the notion
    of such an Academy is just plain funny, and people have little motivation to maintain/promote
    good orthography. <BR> <BR>BTW, proper names could be seen as an generally acceptable
    exception. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-17 01:33:21'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: ' <BR>::::::::: How will reading develop?  <BR> <BR>In many ways, reading
    will be displaced by the information technology if we think that information is
    the main motivation for reading, any way reading will be indispensable for aproaching
    to specific information, education or the literary pleasure. <BR> <BR> <BR>::::::::::
    What are or will be the most influencial factors for this change, if a change
    happens?  <BR> <BR>The information technology if whe think that information is
    the main motivation for people to read. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>:::::::::: What influences
    on type will it have?  <BR> <BR>I think that there will not be such kind of change,
    at least not so radical and not soon, because of the simple fact that human eyes
    can'
  created: '2003-02-22 05:53:18'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: 'Whew, so much has been said here, it&#39;s almost not worth saying more.  But
    I&#39;ll try.  <BR>  <BR>Reading in the future: that implies, of course, that
    people will be reading at all.  How many novels does a teenager in the Western
    world &#40;or specifically, America and Britain&#41; today read per week, compared
    to, say, 100 years ago?  <BR>  <BR>If the trend continues, the future of Western
    literature could conceivably be reduced to academic journals for the elite and
    indecipherable instant messaging by hordes of illiterate graduates.  <BR>  <BR>One
    the other hand, the latter part of the century may well be dominated by the cultural
    contributions of 1.x billion Chinese, once their civilization becomes fully industrialized.  <BR>  <BR><i>If
    Open Type and its offspring will open the possibility of dynamic, maybe even intelligent
    type, might it not be possible that characters and words could melt together,
    creating a new kind of silhouette/bouma based reading? &#40;I mean a kind of ligaturing
    which goes beyond the typical combined two, max. three character forms&#41;. </i>  <BR>  <BR>I&#39;ve
    recently thought it would be interesting to see typefaces where the shape of each
    letter depends on the context of the word and surrounding letters, for total efficiency,
    readability, and gestalt contrast.  <BR>  <BR>Interesting discussion on &#34;word
    glyphs&#34;.  I&#39;ve also heard a theory that whenever a language is faced with
    multiple-glyph forms for words, and single glyphs, the single glyph ultimately
    wins out &#40;the contention being that logographic languages are innately preferable&#41;.  Examples:
    people prefer &amp; to &#34;and&#34;; or @ to &#34;at&#34;; or the number 2 to
    &#34;to&#34; and &#34;too&#34;.  Could our whole language be transformed in such
    a manner?  <BR>  <BR>Cultural imperialism: much may depend on whether a certain
    Western power opts for a few more centuries of colonizing and policing the world,
    politically and culturally; or whether the hundreds of still-unique cultures around
    the world stand their ground and take advantage of their diversity.  <BR>  <BR>Paul'
  created: '2003-02-22 19:22:56'
- author:
    name: danger
    picture: 110299
  body: 'I&#39;ll throw in a few musings to this thread even though it seems to have
    died down. <BR> <BR>What timeframe are you asking about? <BR> <BR>As for next
    year, I think we&#39;ll continue to see more &#34;club kid&#34; fonts and a healthy
    slew of old traditional text faces as well.  <BR> <BR>If we&#39;re talking 10
    years out, we might get to see the coming of the much hearalded movable print
    &#40;small, flexible screens for newspapers, magazines, packaging&#41;. My feeling
    is the first of these products will be of fairly low resolution so we&#39;ll see
    more of the screen-loving fonts like the ones we&#39;re all looking at right now.
    <BR> <BR>:::::::::: What are or will be the most influencial factors for this
    change, if a change happens?  <BR> <BR>Technology and Globalization &#40;American
    cultural imperialism&#41;.  <BR>  <BR>:::::::::: Will we see more Sansserif or
    serif type, if so, why?  <BR> <BR>If we&#39;re talking the short therm &#40;10
    years&#41;, I believe that we will be seeing sans serif faces increasing a their
    market share but all of the text faces will continue to lose share to display
    type if for no other reason that it&#39;s easier to design without a detailed
    understanding of letterforms. We are at the explosion of type design, I don&#39;t
    see any reason why it should slow down in the near future.  <BR>  <BR>::::::::::
    How much does this depend on the development of technology? &#40;HiRes monitors
    e.g.&#41;  <BR>  <BR>High resolution monitors shouldn&#39;t change the type designs
    themselves as much as it should increase the appreciation of the designs. Most
    of us design primarily for print and the ability to display our print outlines
    accurately on the screen would be a wonderful bonus. Even Zuzana Licko&#39;s Base
    series &#40;designed to look good on a screen and on paper&#41; has a superb outline.
    I would love to see it on a high resolution screen. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Interesting
    discussion on &#34;word glyphs&#34;.  I&#39;ve also heard a theory that whenever
    a language is faced with multiple-glyph forms for words, and single glyphs, the
    single glyph ultimately wins out &#40;the contention being that logographic languages
    are innately preferable&#41;.  Examples: people prefer &amp; to &#34;and&#34;;
    or @ to &#34;at&#34;; or the number 2 to &#34;to&#34; and &#34;too&#34;.  Could
    our whole language be transformed in such a manner?   <BR>   <BR>Eric Gill in
    his &#34;An Essay on Typography&#34; argued that the ampersand should not be relegated
    to corporate logotypes &#40;Johnson&amp;Johnson&#41; &amp; he used it in the place
    of &#34;and&#34; throughout the work. However, I find that many people read it
    not as &#34;and&#34; but instead as &#34;  &#39;n  &#34;, which is also a shortening.
    <BR> <BR>As for the coming death of reading: Symbols will always have to be deciphered
    so that messages can be communicated without the presence of sound. We read the
    &#34;Do Not Enter&#34; roadway sign no matter where we are in the world, but we
    still read it by shape and color just as we read the letter &#34;J&#34;. So what
    if teenagers don&#39;t read anymore &#40;J.K. Rowling would laugh at that by the
    way&#41;, they write much more than any previous generation. Does it matter if
    it&#39;s &#34;I will C U @ 2 by the gym&#34;? Remember, legibility is a matter
    of familiarity and so is readability. I can&#39;t read the all-cap blackletter
    that&#39;s popular among American teen-aged car enthusiasts, but you can bet they
    can. <BR> <BR>Perhaps that&#39;s the future of typography for ya: Blackletter.
    Lots and lots of blackletter. If so, I need better glasses. <BR> <BR>Graham'
  created: '2003-03-01 05:52:31'
date: '2002-01-10 09:11:53'
node_type: forum
title: Readability and reading behaviour in the Future

---
