---
author:
  name: David Jones
  picture: 123881
body: 'Starting a new company is a long and painful process, but we''re finally ready
  to show off the fruits of our labor. We hope that FontSlice will fundamentally change
  the way fonts are bought and sold on the Internet. Please email me at [[mailto:david@fontslice.com|david@fontslice.com]]
  if you''re interested in learning more about a distribution agreement. Now, without
  further ado, meet the iTunes of typography: http://typophile.com/node/91389.'
comments:
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: so umm, maybe you should tell us why and how this will revolutionize font
    sales on the web? Will every font come with a free order of chicken wings?
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>Ryan Maelhorn:</strong> so umm, maybe you should tell
      us why and how this will revolutionize font sales on the web? Will every font
      come with a free order of chicken wings?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHey Ryan! Our goal
      is to make high-quality commercial fonts more accessible to the average consumer.
      If that means including a free order of chicken wings with every font, then
      fire up the oven and break out the barbecue sauce! FontSlice will be the first
      digital type distributor to significantly lower the average transaction cost
      of a font without devaluing the font itself. We think FontSlice will allow a
      whole lot more people to enter the wide world of type \u2014 and that <em>would</em>
      be revolutionary."
    created: '2012-03-25 08:03:28'
  created: '2012-03-24 16:16:55'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "Questions:\r\n\r\nDoes your iTunes model mean you only take 30% commission?
    \r\n\r\nHow would this work with modern fonts (i.e.: OT Kerning and OpenType features)?\r\n\r\nWhat
    about version control, particularly with customers who need to share documents?\r\n\r\nHave
    you done any research that suggests there are enough customers setting only headlines
    for this model to make any money for a foundry partner?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "Great questions Jackson. I hope the following helps.\r\n\r\n<blockquote><strong>Jackson:
      </strong>Does your iTunes model mean you only take 30% commission?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOur
      commission <em>can</em> be as low as 30%, but the exact percentage will depend
      on a number of factors, such as the level of exclusivity (there will be three)
      and whether or not the font is being actively promoted. We also realize that
      there's probably not a one-size-fits-all distribution agreement, so we plan
      on working with each foundry individually to come to an agreement that works
      for both parties. We want to treat our foundries like royalty, even if that
      means hiring more employees to handle all of our accounts.\r\n\r\n<blockquote><strong>Jackson:
      </strong>How would this work with modern fonts (i.e.: OT Kerning and OpenType
      features)? What about version control, particularly with customers who need
      to share documents?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt took months of careful programming
      to create the algorithm that produces abridged font files. In a nutshell, the
      algorithm analyzes each line of the original font file and determines what type
      of information it contains. The algorithm won't even consider altering the line
      unless it contains spline data, which is the only data within a font file that
      is absolutely necessary to reproduce the shape of a particular glyph. If a user
      has rights to a certain glyph, then the spline data is left untouched. If a
      user doesn't have rights to a certain glyph, then the spline data is removed.
      All other information (including kerning and OpenType data) is left untouched.
      As long as the user has rights to the necessary glyphs, all OpenType functionality
      will remain intact. The abridged font is identical in every way to the original
      file, save the missing spline data for unlicensed glyphs. This means that version
      control would be handled the same way it is now.\r\n\r\n<blockquote><strong>Jackson:
      </strong>Have you done any research that suggests there are enough customers
      setting only headlines for this model to make any money for a foundry partner?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's
      true that FontSlice will be <em>most</em> useful to users that are typesetting
      display copy. However, assuming a user is able to predict which character ranges
      would be required for a particular application, there's no reason why FontSlice
      wouldn't be used for larger amounts of text. We also believe that users will
      prefer to consolidate their font property in one place, whether they're buying
      abridged or unabridged fonts."
    created: '2012-03-25 16:20:12'
  created: '2012-03-24 16:22:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW: http://typophile.com/node/91389\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-24 16:49:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Frankly, I don't think I would be persuaded to purchase using this particular
    marketing models, but I am an old curmudgeon who's hopelessly out of touch with
    life in a post-PC world\u2014which means, sure: why not? It does appear that many
    adopters of the later-and-greatest technologies don't always make the soundest
    financial decisions...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/new-ipad-users-slowed-by-expensive-4g-network-rates/2012/03/22/gIQARLXYUS_story.html
    \r\n\r\nPlus, if this process offers an <em>additional</em> revenue stream, what's
    the downside of giving it a chance?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>oldnick: </strong>Plus, if this process offers an <em>additional</em>
      revenue stream, what's the downside of giving it a chance?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNick,
      you're absolutely right. The intent of FontSlice is not to <em>replace</em>
      the current model, but rather to <em>supplement</em> it with an additional revenue
      stream. FontSlice will be the gateway drug for people who might otherwise stick
      to free fonts."
    created: '2012-03-25 17:01:55'
  created: '2012-03-24 21:07:41'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Ummm, not to throw cold water of tech on your plans, but ... hinting? vertical
    metrics?\r\n\r\nJason C"
  children:
  - author:
      name: brianskywalker
      picture: 116184
    body: Jason, what about them? You include only what is necessary for the purchased
      glyphs. Why include the hints for 'a' when you only bought 'c' and 'd'?
    children:
    - author:
        name: David Jones
        picture: 123881
      body: "<blockquote><strong>brianskywalker: </strong>Jason, what about them?
        You include only what is necessary for the purchased glyphs. Why include the
        hints for 'a' when you only bought 'c' and 'd'?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYour right
        Brian. Its really only necessary to include hinting, metrics, and OpenType
        information for purchased glyphs. The upside of this technique is that it
        would result in smaller font files. The downside is that it would take a bit
        more processing power since the algorithm would need to make a few more decisions
        about what information to include or omit. It's not clear at this point which
        method is more advantageous on a large-scale platform, and we may choose to
        alter the algorithm after we gather server statistics for the first few months.
        In any case, the end result will be the same: a fully-functioning abridged
        font that is otherwise identical to the original file."
      created: '2012-03-25 18:12:43'
    created: '2012-03-25 00:34:55'
  created: '2012-03-25 00:23:27'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "So if I were to buy \"abcd\" I presume I would download a font containing
    \"abcd\" if I then return and buy \"efghi\" would I get a new font containing
    \"abcdefghi\" which would require me to uninstall \"abcd\" and hope the versions
    don't conflict or that all caches have been cleared (even  though that isn't always
    a guarantee).\r\n\r\nHow would the average user go about dealing with multiple
    variations of the same font? \r\n\r\nThis, to me, is where it is different than
    music files."
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>JamesT: </strong>So if I were to buy \"abcd\" I presume
      I would download a font containing \"abcd\" if I then return and buy \"efghi\"
      would I get a new font containing \"abcdefghi\" which would require me to uninstall
      \"abcd\" and hope the versions don't conflict or that all caches have been cleared
      (even though that isn't always a guarantee).\r\n\r\nHow would the average user
      go about dealing with multiple variations of the same font?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHey
      James. Great question. This was actually one of the tests we performed in our
      testing phase. We wanted to make sure users could easily upgrade an abridged
      font without too much hassle. To the operating system, two different abridged
      versions of the same font will appear to be identical. Thus, when you install
      the upgraded version, it will overwrite the older version. Some software applications
      will need to be restarted before they will recognize the upgraded font, but
      this is the case when installing any new font, abridged or not."
    created: '2012-03-25 23:16:43'
  created: '2012-03-25 03:21:46'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "<blockquote>Jason, what about them? You include only what is necessary for
    the purchased glyphs. Why include the hints for 'a' when you only bought 'c' and
    'd'?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nwhich would be true, if all the hinting information was
    stored in each glyph. But True Type hints (of any value) reference control values
    stored in the cvt table, meaning you need to parse the CVT to decide what parts
    you want to keep? And then adjust later if they buy more letters?\r\n\r\nAnd what
    if I buy a font with no accented characters, are the vertical metrics set for
    that \"font\"'s tallest glyphs? But then I come back later and buy a capital A+ring,
    does the font's vertical metrics change for the new taller glyph? That would respace
    my documents created using the font. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: brianskywalker
      picture: 116184
    body: "Vertical metrics are set font-wide, aren't they? So I think no matter what
      glyphs you get they'd be the same. \r\n\r\nNote: I don't know that I like the
      idea of this project or not."
    children:
    - author:
        name: David Jones
        picture: 123881
      body: "<blockquote><strong>brianskywalker: </strong>Vertical metrics are set
        font-wide, aren't they? So I think no matter what glyphs you get they'd be
        the same.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, vertical metrics are typically set font-wide.
        From a coding perspective, its relatively simple to make sure the vertical
        metrics of an abridged font match the original font file."
      created: '2012-03-25 23:21:23'
    created: '2012-03-25 06:38:44'
  created: '2012-03-25 05:16:56'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Well, as the skeptics already have spoken (consider me one too), I\u2019ll
    play the devil\u2019s advocate here and picture a scenario where this kind of
    service might be of benefit:\r\n\r\nAs a graphic design studio, we receive a number
    of logotype files from different institutions/companies, to include them in some
    brochure or poster. Dealing with graphic laymen, the problem is that these files
    aren\u2019t fit for print: pixelated GIF, embedded DOC, you name it. Very often,
    this is about a few characters only, from an easily identifiable and common typeface,
    without any modifications. It would be a matter of minutes to download the font
    and re-set the damn line. We don\u2019t do that, because we don\u2019t want to
    spend money on lame \u2018classic\u2019 fonts that we don\u2019t like, and won\u2019t
    ever need again. I prefer spending money on good fonts.\r\n\r\nSo, what to do?
    Lose hours of time trying to reach someone who can send us a good file? No, that\u2019s
    hopeless (\u201CBut I already sent you our logo twice!\u201D, \u201CJust grab
    it from our website! It\u2019s on the top left.\u201D \u201CSpeak to our IT guy.
    He\u2019s back next week.\u201D). Simply send the crappy files to the printer
    and not care? Hardly.  \r\n\r\nThis may sound far-fetched, but it happens all
    the time. In these cases, I wish for a pay-by-the-letter service. As a workaround.
    The critical points raised (versions, kerning, OT features, hinting) all hardly
    apply.\r\n\r\nI doubt that this is enough to build a business model on. But maybe
    the target group of FontSlice is not us professionals, anyway?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>Florian Hardwig: </strong>As a graphic design studio,
      we receive a number of logotype files from different institutions/companies,
      to include them in some brochure or poster. Dealing with graphic laymen, the
      problem is that these files aren\u2019t fit for print: pixelated GIF, embedded
      DOC, you name it. Very often, this is about a few characters only, from an easily
      identifiable and common typeface, without any modifications. It would be a matter
      of minutes to download the font and re-set the damn line. We don\u2019t do that,
      because we don\u2019t want to spend money on lame \u2018classic\u2019 fonts
      that we don\u2019t like, and won\u2019t ever need again. I prefer spending money
      on good fonts.\r\n\r\nSo, what to do? Lose hours of time trying to reach someone
      who can send us a good file? No, that\u2019s hopeless (\u201CBut I already sent
      you our logo twice!\u201D, \u201CJust grab it from our website! It\u2019s on
      the top left.\u201D \u201CSpeak to our IT guy. He\u2019s back next week.\u201D).
      Simply send the crappy files to the printer and not care? Hardly.\r\n\r\nThis
      may sound far-fetched, but it happens all the time. In these cases, I wish for
      a pay-by-the-letter service. As a workaround. The critical points raised (versions,
      kerning, OT features, hinting) all hardly apply.\r\n\r\nI doubt that this is
      enough to build a business model on. But maybe the target group of FontSlice
      is not us professionals, anyway?</blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote><strong>daverowland:
      </strong>Yes as part of my old day job I had to vectorise loads of crappy pixelated
      logos. If we didn't have the font, it was often way more cost effective to trace
      the characters needed (it's what got me into making fonts in the first place)
      than buy the font. In this situation a pay-by-glyph system would be useful.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
      both bring up a good point. The problem of vectorizing old logos is certainly
      one of the many applications of FontSlice. In this case, the underlying problem
      is that your limited usage of an asset doesn't justify the cost. This argument
      could be made whether you're designing logos or any variety of other media,
      such as advertisements, blog headers, brochures, covers, invitations, or posters;
      all of these applications may only require a small subset of glyphs. Of course,
      if you only purchase 'good' fonts, then you can use them time and again, but
      fonts are often chosen for specific projects and designers may not want to commit
      to a font if they're unsure how useful it will be to them in the future. FontSlice
      lowers that initial barrier to consumption and allows the user to make this
      commitment over time. While professional designers are certainly a part of the
      target market, I believe FontSlice will attract people who previously may have
      never even considered paying for a font.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2012-03-26 00:33:48'
  created: '2012-03-25 11:32:20'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: 'Yes as part of my old day job I had to vectorise loads of crappy pixelated
    logos. If we didn''t have the font, it was often way more cost effective to trace
    the characters needed (it''s what got me into making fonts in the first place)
    than buy the font. In this situation a pay-by-glyph system would be useful. I
    wonder how big this specific Market is. If this system took off I wonder how long
    it would be before section, paragraph, currency symbol and all the other virtually
    pointless glyphs we feel obliged to include in our (display) fonts cease to be
    made. '
  created: '2012-03-25 12:51:05'
- author:
    name: David Jones
    picture: 123881
  body: "<blockquote><strong>jasonc: </strong>Ummm, not to throw cold water of tech
    on your plans, but ... hinting? vertical metrics?\r\n\r\nAnd what if I buy a font
    with no accented characters, are the vertical metrics set for that \"font\"'s
    tallest glyphs? But then I come back later and buy a capital A+ring, does the
    font's vertical metrics change for the new taller glyph? That would respace my
    documents created using the font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHey Jason. These are very
    valid concerns and things that we've considered as well. In my response to Jackson's
    second question, I explained a bit about how the algorithm works. Basically, the
    information within the font file will remain perfectly intact, except that the
    spline data for unlicensed glyphs will be removed (metric information will be
    left untouched). This means that designers will not be required to re-adjust text
    positioning after upgrading an abridged font."
  created: '2012-03-25 17:17:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The \u201Cdesigner fonts\u201D with which you intend to populate your site
    seem to have been left to the last minute, as if the product, in contradiction,
    is generic.\r\n\r\nIn my experience there are two models a new distributor can
    adopt: either a small, select, carefully curated group of typefaces\u2014or a
    large enough volume of common styles in which keyword searching can come into
    play.\r\n\r\nThe \uFB01rst option grows into the second over time.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, when Apple launched DTP, part of its success was having Helvetica and
    Times bundled with the LaserWriter software: instant cred.\r\n\r\nRecently, Google
    has launched its web fonts site, with the emphasis on the functionality of the
    site as a design tool, and the functionality of the font formats and licensing
    model, but has been <a href=\"http://www.typographyforlawyers.com/?page_id=3207\">criticized</a>
    for the overall quality of the fonts available. Nonetheless, its fonts are being
    used; because Google is massive, a bene\uFB01t you don\u2019t have.\r\n\r\nI would
    suggest you either solicit particular foundries with product that you think will
    give you a distinct design pro\uFB01le to match and complement your business model
    (curation option), or approach a foundry/publisher which can provide you with
    a large collection that spans the major type categories. \r\n\r\nActively seeking
    speci\uFB01c content would, in my opinion, be better than just saying \u201Copen
    for business\u201D and taking what comes.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>Nick Shinn: </strong>Actively seeking speci\uFB01c
      content would, in my opinion, be better than just saying \u201Copen for business\u201D
      and taking what comes.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNick, the idea of actively seeking
      specific content is very sound advice. Although it may take a bit longer in
      the beginning, having the right partners will help legitimize FontSlice and
      carry it forward. Thanks for your insight."
    created: '2012-03-26 05:26:32'
  created: '2012-03-25 18:14:01'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I can see the niche use where one needs to deal with a slogan or logotype
    or sign, perhaps. But I don't quite see how this would have much mass appeal.
    \r\n\r\nSo, I think it's a bit silly. But, then again, I thought Typekit was (well,
    still is) a bit of a silly model as well, so what do I know?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>aluminum: </strong>I can see the niche use where one
      needs to deal with a slogan or logotype or sign, perhaps. But I don't quite
      see how this would have much mass appeal.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI definitely see
      where you're coming from, but I do believe the mass appeal is there. If you
      look through the top 100 most-downloaded fonts of all time on dafont.com (a
      free font website), you'll find that most of these fonts are downloaded hundreds
      or thousands of times <em>per day</em>. You'll also notice that nearly every
      font in that list is a display font (very few would actually work for body text).
      The font market is <em>massive</em>, but I don't believe its currently in equilibrium;
      consumers can either pay $25 or $0 with very little in-between. FontSlice offers
      a simple model for bringing the market into equilibrium. People who may have
      never paid for a font before might be able to justify paying a dollar or two
      for a font through FontSlice. This will acclimate consumers to the idea of paying
      for high-quality fonts in general, which may expand the market even further."
    created: '2012-03-26 05:56:47'
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: '{More to come}'
    created: '2012-03-26 05:57:17'
  created: '2012-03-26 01:55:33'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Reminded of Google web fonts: Google web fonts can do the same thing already.
    It splices up the kerning and hinting data of the fonts and allows you to use
    any subset of a font, including a single glyph. Of course this is not useful in
    the same way\u2014all of the Google web fonts are already free. This is only intended
    to allow you to increase page load times. At the core it uses <a href=\"http://code.google.com/p/sfntly/\">sfntly</a>."
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>brianskywalker: </strong>Reminded of Google web fonts:
      Google web fonts can do the same thing already. It splices up the kerning and
      hinting data of the fonts and allows you to use any subset of a font, including
      a single glyph. Of course this is not useful in the same way\u2014all of the
      Google web fonts are already free. This is only intended to allow you to increase
      page load times. At the core it uses sfntly.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou're right
      Brian. The idea of font subsetting certainly isn't new. It's really the business
      model and platform that is unique. The technology is rather straightforward."
    created: '2012-03-26 05:29:28'
  created: '2012-03-26 02:39:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The font market is massive\"\r\n\r\nNo doubt. But be careful assuming Dafont
    is any indicator of the font market. \r\n\r\nBut, best of luck. Hopefully something
    will come of it!"
  created: '2012-03-26 06:54:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I was first checking today's date to see if we already have April, 1st. But
    now that I think about it, there\u2019s a fair chance it might work. It will of
    course stand or fall with the content of the font catalogue. \r\nFor the people
    who usually use Dafont or Google Webfonts you need to offer something special,
    which these sites don't have in order to have people pay for your fonts. \r\nFor
    the scenario of \"recreating logotypes\" you need to have all the classics from
    Monotype/Linotype first or it won't work. \r\n\r\nFrom my foundry's point of view:
    If people can buy my fonts for a fraction of the regular price they pay at MyFonts,
    then your service would need to license a lot more of these subsetted fonts \u2013\_otherwise
    I won't be too interested in participating. \r\n"
  created: '2012-03-26 09:53:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@Ralf &ndash; As I understand it, their business plan is to sell small subsets
    of fonts. A font with, say, a C, a D, a P and some custom kerning would be useful
    for a certain political party''s identity but utterly bloody useless for anything
    else.'
  created: '2012-03-26 12:15:42'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: .
  created: '2012-03-26 12:20:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I\u2019m not sayin\u2019 this kind of purchasing model isn\u2019t right for
    anyone:\r\n\r\nbut for those who need to finalize the simulation of a design before
    the editorial work is complete, like, e.g. Roger Black, stopping composition to
    \u201Cbuy a vowel\u201D is a joke we talked about in the past. \r\n\r\nthere are
    300,000 free, 80,000 commercial, 400,000 floating on the web and 5,000 or so people
    offering custom fonts, fonts & fonts. I think, and there\u2019s plenty of evidence
    to back it up, that $25-$40 for great commercial fonts is not a barrier for someone
    who wants to pay something; while 15\xA2-$1.00 is too much of a barrier for someone
    who doesn\u2019t want to pay anything.\r\n\r\ntechnically this model is not a
    big deal for those who serve subset fonts to speed their way along the web. Off
    the web, serving identically named fonts potentially with 1,000\u2019s of different
    glyph repertoires, and having those loose legally or illegally in local and wide
    area networks \u2014 is an IT/IP/I think/IC a nightmare. \r\n\r\nit should be
    interesting, what vendors and what users will go for it. \r\n\r\nGood luck David
    Jones!"
  created: '2012-03-26 14:08:48'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "What if I firstly buy license for letters from A to G, then from H to M,
    then from N to T and from U to Z, and then do the same for a to z. \r\n\r\nWould
    I get an set of A-Z + a-z cheaper then buying regular font license from i.e. MyFonts?\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nOr
    if I understood it well (just saw your website), you will establish first the
    price of an font (i.e. $25 for full character set, like from i.e. MyFonts). Then
    based on (total) font price, you'll assign an \"glyph price\"?\r\n\r\nI don't
    understand fully the way how will you determine the price of an glyph set the
    customer chosen to buy."
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>tourdeforce: </strong>Or if I understood it well (just
      saw your website), you will establish first the price of an font (i.e. $25 for
      full character set, like from i.e. MyFonts). Then based on (total) font price,
      you'll assign an \"glyph price\"?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGreat question. The price
      for an unabridged font is established by the foundry. In most cases, it will
      be the same price as MyFonts and other distributors. When a user makes a purchase,
      the price is calculated using the following formula:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/formula_5691.jpg]\r\n\r\nPF
      = The price of the unabridged font (set by the foundry)\r\nGO = The number of
      old glyphs (purchased by the user in the past)\r\nGN = The number of new glyphs
      (not yet purchased by the user)\r\nGT = The total number of glyphs in the font\r\nb
      = The sharpness of the pricing curve (normally set to 2)\r\n\r\nNote that if
      the user purchases all glyphs in the first purchase, then GO must equal zero
      and GN must equal GT. Thus, the formula reduces to PF (the price of the unabridged
      font set by the foundry).\r\n\r\nI hope this helps! Let me know if you have
      any more questions."
    created: '2012-03-26 17:10:01'
  created: '2012-03-26 15:13:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>GT = The total number of glyphs in the font</blockquote>\r\nSo
    all glyphs are equal under the sky?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>riccard0: </strong>So all glyphs are equal under the
      sky?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou make a fair point Riccardo. Our pricing model does
      assume that each glyph represents an equal amount of effort, which is certainly
      an oversimplification. We realize that some characters require a great deal
      more effort than others. For example, building an accented character takes far
      less time than designing the components that it references. When we were designing
      our pricing model, we considered adding terms that would account for these different
      levels of complexity. In the end, however, we decided that the addition of such
      complexity would breed further complexity. We didn't want to end up with something
      akin to the U.S. tax code, so we decided to stick with a simple formula. However,
      our ears are open. If this pricing model doesn't work for the type community,
      then let's start that discussion."
    created: '2012-03-26 17:27:35'
  created: '2012-03-26 17:06:28'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: I think there's evidence from the success (however brief) of deeply discounted
    typefaces on MyFonts that $25-40 is actually a barrier to entry for some people.
    I've personally made impulse purchases when the price dips ridiculously low (as
    in $9 for a 6-weight display family). This is not same thing as purchasing a subset,
    but it does suggest that even professional and semi-pro users of type aren't immune
    to deep discounting.
  created: '2012-03-26 17:07:59'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: By the way, hangman anyone? ;-)
  created: '2012-03-26 17:13:27'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> So all glyphs are equal under the sky?\r\n\r\nWhat? You want to buy the
    period and comma for a lower price than the g and the a, because they were easier
    to create? That is asking a bit much, I think."
  created: '2012-03-26 17:17:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "THIS WEEK ONLY: VOWELS 30% OFF! PUNCTUATION = BUY 2 GET ONE FREE!\r\n\r\n:)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>aluminum: </strong>THIS WEEK ONLY: VOWELS 30% OFF!
      PUNCTUATION = BUY 2 GET ONE FREE!\r\n\r\n:)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHmmm. Not a
      bad idea... :-)"
    created: '2012-03-26 17:31:49'
  created: '2012-03-26 17:24:14'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>You want to buy the period and comma for a lower price than the
    g and the a, because they were easier to create?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI was just
    asking, and surely not inferring that a comma is easier to create that an a.*\r\nI
    was wondering if the price could be subject to market demand (either by charging
    more the most requested glyphs, or the more specialised ones).\r\nFor what is
    worth, I think the simpler the price plan is, the better.\r\n\r\n* But probably
    it is more easily substituted with one from a different font (like the generic
    sorts of metal past)."
  created: '2012-03-26 17:36:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>THIS WEEK ONLY: VOWELS 30% OFF! PUNCTUATION = BUY 2 GET ONE
    FREE!</p><blockquote>\r\n<p>Hmmm. Not a bad idea.</p></blockquote></blockquote>\r\nWell,
    for some indy foundries, the \"freemium\" model has worked.\r\nSo, maybe a foundry
    could offer a limited number of glyphs for free (indefinitely, or for a limited
    time, or upon a newsletter subscription...)."
  created: '2012-03-26 17:47:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>To the operating system, two different abridged versions of the
    same font will appear to be identical. Thus, when you install the upgraded version,
    it will overwrite the older version. Some software applications will need to be
    restarted before they will recognize the upgraded font, but this is the case when
    installing any new font, abridged or not.</blockquote>\r\n \r\nI wonder if, even
    still, you'll run into the caching problems that JamesT brought up. In my experience,
    if you keep reinstalling fonts with the same name, eventually you'll run into
    trouble like disappearing glyphs, etc.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-26 18:00:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Those of us who regularly load and re-load versions of fonts during development
    know that Adobe\u2019s font caches are notoriously prone to corruption and unpredictability
    under these circumstances. FWIW."
  created: '2012-03-26 18:30:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"So, maybe a foundry could offer a limited number of glyphs for free\"\r\n\r\nOnly
    fear there is a resurgence in the Ransom Note style. ;)"
  created: '2012-03-26 18:52:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Being an old fart and remembering what it used to cost to get a few lines
    of text set for one-time use, I have a tough time seeing how $25 dollars could
    be a barrier to anyone for the purchase of a font.  I made a little experiment.
    \ I started off the sale of a display font with 640 glyph character set at what
    to me was a very under-priced $20 ( I felt that $35 was the fair price I should
    have set to begin with).  Later, I put it on sale at half price [as in 50% off
    or only 10 bucks].  The funny thing is, I sold more fonts [units]  in less time
    at $20 dollars that I did at half price by a two to one margin! Here is an example:\r\n20
    units @ $20 sold in TEN days equals $400\r\n10 units @ $10 sold in THIRTY days
    equals $100 [this also came with added advertising on MyFonts on Sale list].\r\n\r\nClearly,
    the scrapbookers are not interested enough in my $10 dollar font to get anywhere
    near close to matching either sales or profits from the real professional type
    users who were happy to pay only $20 and perhaps were wondering to themselves,
    \"There must be something wrong with this font if it only costs $20.\"\r\n\r\nThere
    are two ways to look at this.  I could drop the price to a ridiculous five dollars
    to entice the scrapbookers or decide they are not worth the effort.  For me to
    make five dollar fonts, they would need to be bare-bones minimum character set
    and not all that carefully done. There are plenty of folks happily making money
    doing this who are content with themselves and their work doing this.  Hats off
    to them.  For me, I just don't want to make shit and call it type just to make
    some money.  I would so hate that!  I might as well work at McDonalds and serve
    shit food at minimum wage.  I would rather just ignore the hobby market and try
    to appeal to the people who really care about type.  Maybe I will fail at that
    and misunderstand what the professional market wants, expects, and is willing
    to pay, but I can live with that kind of failure.  I could not live with the other
    kind of failure though, where I make shit type that sells for shit but makes a
    profit because that market does not give a shit."
  created: '2012-03-26 18:55:43'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "Certainly there\u2019s room in the font world for new approaches to marketing
    and sales. For instance, Webtype and Typekit introduced the idea of subscription-based
    fonts as a way of meeting the needs of webfont customers.\r\n\r\nThose services,
    however, actually exist. FontSlice\u2019s service does not. So while I wish FontSlice
    well, as long as it has neither fonts nor customers, it\u2019s not good enough
    to criticize (nor compliment)."
  created: '2012-03-26 18:58:04'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "@ David Jones\r\n\r\nWhat you're talking about in this topic is more or less
    like this:\r\n[[http://www.photolettering.com]]\r\n\r\nWith few different points,
    but overall the concept is the same.\r\n\r\nAm I right?"
  created: '2012-03-26 19:08:55'
- author:
    name: David Jones
    picture: 123881
  body: "<blockquote><strong>tourdeforce: </strong>What you're talking about in this
    topic is more or less like this:\r\nhttp://www.photolettering.com\r\n\r\nWith
    few different points, but overall the concept is the same.\r\n\r\nAm I right?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere
    are certainly some similarities in our business models, but there are some <em>major</em>
    differences. At its core, FontSlice is just another font distributor. At any given
    time, FontSlice users could own any number of abridged <em>and</em> unabridged
    fonts, meaning that our platform could completely replace their previous distributor
    of choice. Our sights are set high: we want to be the MyFonts replacement. (I
    know, I know \u2014 that may take divine intervention \u2014 but why dream at
    all if you can't dream big?) We think we can get there by giving consumers more
    options.\r\n\r\nEvery font distributor has their niche \u2014 something that sets
    them apart from other distributors in hopes of encouraging consumers to shop there.
    Our niche will be incremental ownership; you can think of it as zero-interest
    financing for fonts. This concept doesn't come into play at Photo-Lettering. When
    a user purchases an abridged font on FontSlice, they are actually purchasing a
    font rather than a vector image. If they already own a portion of a font, they
    will have incentive to use it again for future projects, purchasing new glyphs
    as they go. Most importantly, users can still purchase entire fonts as they always
    have. Thus, FontSlice will be one-stop shopping for the font industry. Like I
    mentioned earlier, FontSlice will be the gateway drug into the font world. When
    users are ready to try the hard stuff, they'll already know a dealer. (Okay, maybe
    I should stop with the drug analogies...)"
  created: '2012-03-26 20:48:08'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "Thanks.\r\n\r\nOK, so let's see when it goes live."
  created: '2012-03-26 21:00:12'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "April 1st comes early this year, doesn\u2019t it?"
  created: '2012-03-26 22:18:50'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: I like it. Of course this is not the way to purchase a font for a whole project
    or for a client but it will at least help me not spending so much time tracing
    mini jpg logos made with typefaces I do not own.
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>rs_donsata: </strong>I like it. Of course this is not
      the way to purchase a font for a whole project or for a client but it will at
      least help me not spending so much time tracing mini jpg logos made with typefaces
      I do not own.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm glad you like the idea! You're absolutely
      right; buying an abridged font may not be practical for large projects involving
      a lot of type. That's why FontSlice will also function as a regular distributor,
      so designers can purchase both abridged <em>and</em> unabridged fonts. We hope
      to attract people away from other distributors by giving them more purchasing
      options and an overall better shopping experience."
    children:
    - author:
        name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
        picture: 110313
      body: This is good.
      created: '2012-03-31 16:13:50'
    created: '2012-03-31 15:46:20'
  created: '2012-03-31 02:24:59'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I take it that buying the unabridged font is cheaper then buying it in pieces?
    Otherwise foundries are not likely to be very interested, i think.
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>1996type: </strong>I take it that buying the unabridged
      font is cheaper then buying it in pieces? Otherwise foundries are not likely
      to be very interested, i think.</blockquote>\r\nYou make an excellent point.
      We realized early on that foundries would not be on board with a linear pricing
      model (i.e. if the price of each glyph was simply the total price divided by
      the number of glyphs). A linear pricing model would mean that some smaller transactions
      might only be a few pennies - which certainly doesn't sit well with the artists
      that put all the effort into designing the font. This is why we use a non-linear
      pricing model. In other words, a consumer who only purchases a few glyphs will
      pay significantly more per glyph than a consumer who purchases many glyphs.
      The per-glyph rate decreases as you buy more, which actually gives the consumer
      an incentive to come back and purchase the rest of the font."
    created: '2012-04-02 04:46:20'
  created: '2012-03-31 23:01:59'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "The idea has some potential.\r\n\r\nMany foundries are already selling a
    'Basic' version and a 'Pro' version.\r\n\r\nPro version are 'expanded version',
    or if you look the other way around:\r\nBasic versions are indeed a 'sliced' version
    of the Pro.\r\n\r\nWhat if all I need is a font for just 1 language?\r\nI can
    buy a super-basic version, for 20% or 30% of the price.\r\nFor Example:\r\n\r\nMyFonts:\r\n-
    12 styles Full Family 'Pro': $500\r\n- 12 styles Full Family 'Basic': $200\r\nFontSlice:\r\n-
    12 styles Full Family 'English and Spanish': $60\r\n- 12 styles Full Family 'English
    Only': $50\r\n\r\nIf you offer 'predefined' slices based on languages, then maybe
    you have something... \r\nMany people will only use 20/30% of the glyphs anyway\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>PabloImpallari: </strong>The idea has some potential.\r\n\r\nMany
      foundries are already selling a 'Basic' version and a 'Pro' version.\r\n\r\nPro
      version are 'expanded version', or if you look the other way around:\r\nBasic
      versions are indeed a 'sliced' version of the Pro.\r\n\r\nWhat if all I need
      is a font for just 1 language?\r\nI can buy a super-basic version, for 20% or
      30% of the price.\r\nFor Example:\r\n\r\nMyFonts:\r\n- 12 styles Full Family
      'Pro': $500\r\n- 12 styles Full Family 'Basic': $200\r\nFontSlice:\r\n- 12 styles
      Full Family 'English and Spanish': $60\r\n- 12 styles Full Family 'English Only':
      $50\r\n\r\nIf you offer 'predefined' slices based on languages, then maybe you
      have something...\r\nMany people will only use 20/30% of the glyphs anyway</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThanks
      Pablo! You're right - other distributors are already starting to offer subsets
      by packaging them as 'Basic' or 'Pro'. FontSlice essentially takes that idea
      to the next level. Customers who are typesetting more than just display copy
      will be able to choose a language from a drop-down menu, which will automatically
      insert all the characters required for that language."
    created: '2012-04-02 21:11:40'
  created: '2012-04-02 07:45:45'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>If you offer 'predefined' slices based on languages, then maybe
    you have something...</blockquote>\r\nLikely scenario: I do a piece for a client
    in English. Ater some time, it turns out it will be translated into another language,
    so I buy that language specific \u201Cextension\u201D.\r\nObviously the tricky
    part is that the font must have the characters available to begin with.\r\nBut
    perhaps, in the long run, a similar model would help designers better evaluate
    the ROI of covering different languages."
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>Riccardo: </strong>Likely scenario: I do a piece for
      a client in English. Ater some time, it turns out it will be translated into
      another language, so I buy that language specific \u201Cextension\u201D.\r\nObviously
      the tricky part is that the font must have the characters available to begin
      with.\r\nBut perhaps, in the long run, a similar model would help designers
      better evaluate the ROI of covering different languages.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nRiccardo,
      I hadn't thought of that scenario before so I'm glad you mentioned it! Fonts
      will be searchable by language, so if someone could at least anticipate which
      languages they may potentially need in the future, they could limit their search
      to fonts which have those particular languages available (even if they aren't
      planning on purchasing those languages at first)."
    created: '2012-04-02 21:08:48'
  created: '2012-04-02 07:50:28'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>What if all I need is a font for just 1 language?\r\nI can buy a super-basic
    version, for 20% or 30% of the price.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't think, FontSlice can
    come up with a universal system that creates fonts where kerning, OT features
    and all that stuff will be subsetted properly according to such languages for
    every given font. \r\nThe niche would be to sell individual characters (e.g. for
    logotypes), not working fonts in the usual sense. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>Ralf: </strong>I don't think, FontSlice can come up
      with a universal system that creates fonts where kerning, OT features and all
      that stuff will be subsetted properly according to such languages for every
      given font.\r\nThe niche would be to sell individual characters (e.g. for logotypes),
      not working fonts in the usual sense.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHey Ralph! You're
      right - FontSlice will definitely be useful for logotypes etc., but it will
      also produce fully functioning fonts. Our algorithm only removes spline data
      for unlicensed glyphs, which doesn't affect kerning or OpenType features. This
      means that FontSlice is capable of solving some of the language problems mentioned
      above."
    created: '2012-04-02 21:17:42'
  created: '2012-04-02 09:11:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "To my mind, the \u201Cdiscount-for-fewer-languages-supported\u201D might
    make sense if the font contains, say, Greek and Cyrillic characters but, otherwise,
    it doesn't. Most of the time and effort put into creating a font are for design
    and rendering of characters, and kerning. Expanding the basic \"English\" characters
    set to include Latin 1252, Central European 1250, Turkish 1254 and Baltic 1257
    is generally just a matter of automated, algorithmic character generation, with
    a bit of tweaking.\r\n\r\nSo, the idea may sound good on paper, but such an arrangement
    represents selling your overall efforts short.\r\n\r\nIMHO.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-02 16:48:36'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: If the price scale was exponentially skewed more than their current example
    shows, it might work out that a font with 256 characters rather than Latin Extended
    A works out about 90% the price, I think that could work. Any cheaper and I don't
    think it would be worth my while selling this way - I guess very few of my customers
    use many of the extended character set glyphs; many of them don't even use contextual
    alternates, ligatures etc. If my fonts were available in abridged versions at
    discounted prices, this would cut my earnings not increase them (I think! - obviously
    I have absolutely no evidence for this. I'll check back here and see how it seems
    to be going for foundries that do sign up with FontSlice, but for me, at this
    moment in time, I'm not prepared to take the plunge)
  created: '2012-04-02 17:21:46'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "To expand off of what Nick said, when the character set is expanded, at least
    in regards to most Latin-based languages, it's not too difficult of a task. The
    issue arises when the Typeface (for example, my Garvis typeface), includes much
    more than just European Latin Orthographies. A lot of those glyphs take a lot
    more time to create.\r\n\r\nIt wouldn't really seem fair to charge more because
    the orthography is more time-intensive to draw (if the user wanted to buy the
    language support for Hausa or Dinka instead of Portuguese \u2013 support for those
    scripts is scarce enough already), as there would only be a few scripts that fall
    outside of the \"auto-generate and tweak\" language systems. It seems like this
    would punishing those users for being unlucky enough to need to write in that
    language. Then they would likely go back to using the same fonts they have always
    used and type designers will continue not covering those orthographies as nobody
    would buy them.\r\n\r\nWhat I think will end up happening is this idea will continue
    to be re-examined until it ends up being the same \"basic\" and \"pro\" versions
    \u2013 essentially the same as every other distributor."
  created: '2012-04-02 18:20:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>Hausa or Dinka instead of Portuguese</blockquote>\r\nThere\u2019s
    no need to pay more for Hausa than Portuguese, since you will pay per glyph anyway.\r\n<blockquote>it
    ends up being the same \"basic\" and \"pro\" versions</blockquote>\r\nNot if you\u2019re
    interested only in, let\u2019s say, African languages but not South American ones.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing that could be debatable is if combining diacritics would be considered full-fledged
    glyphs or not."
  created: '2012-04-02 19:35:37'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Come on people, don't be so negative about this.\r\n\r\nI understand some
    may feel threatened by a perceived loss of sales but really most designers will
    not buy an entire typeface to only set a headline or a logotype. Most of the times
    they will go through the painful process of tracing jpgs or even finding an illegal
    copy.\r\n\r\nI see this working specially for popular display faces.\r\n\r\nYou
    all will be winning more money without losing your main income source."
  created: '2012-04-02 23:45:59'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Honestly, when I buy a font I prefer to get the \"authoritative\" version,
    with as many glyphs as possible. FontFont tends to ship their fonts in a few ways.
    I think the Pro versions contain everything, where the OT versions contain a slightly
    smaller subset. I'm actually happy with the OT versions, having saved a few bucks,
    and not finding the extra languages necessary. But getting a very paired-down
    font would be un-ideal\u2014unless I was getting it just for a logo. And if it's
    only a few bucks, why not?"
  created: '2012-04-03 00:27:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Our algorithm only removes spline data for unlicensed glyphs, which
    doesn't affect kerning or OpenType features. </cite>\r\n\r\nUgh. So I will download
    a 3-character font with maybe thousands of lines of feature code?"
  created: '2012-04-03 09:13:58'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "There are no lines of feature code in binary fonts.  ;-)\r\n\r\nSince you
    seem to allude to file size: FontSlice is not about webfonts, so it doesn't matter
    whether a file is a bit smaller or bigger. And it would not even matter if \u2013
    think of the download size of OS and application updates ..."
  created: '2012-04-03 10:05:57'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I don\u2019t mind the file size. I am just trying to understand how it works.\r\nAre
    missing glyphs which are still referenced in the code no problem whatsoever in
    any app? Again, I\u2019m just curious. "
  created: '2012-04-03 10:18:57'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Your question has been answered already, see Mr Jones' last post. He explained
    that <em>glyphs</em> will still be there, hence no problem if layout tables reference
    them. (Simple, effective, non-destructive.)
  created: '2012-04-03 11:20:39'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: So just the outlines are removed? So if I type f and i the standard ligatures
    might kick in and replace it with an empty f_i glyph?
  created: '2012-04-03 11:29:55'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: Ligatures should be priced double :)
  children:
  - author:
      name: brianskywalker
      picture: 116184
    body: "<blobkquote>Ligatures should be priced double :)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHah!
      Both clever and tricky\u2014getting more for one glyph because it's a representation
      of multiple letters."
    created: '2012-04-03 16:38:59'
  created: '2012-04-03 14:35:08'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Hah! Both clever and tricky\u2014getting more for one glyph because it's
    a representation of multiple letters.</em>\r\n\r\nHow true: a clever soul could
    pick and choose ligatures from a font like Ed Interlock and pay no more than half
    price for the letters selected!\r\n\r\nAssuming, of course, this clever soul saw
    no correlation between time and money\u2026"
  created: '2012-04-03 18:08:16'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: '@David Jones: Kudos to you for how you''ve been handling all these comments.
    I must say you''re starting to convince me :-)'
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>1996type: </strong>@David Jones: Kudos to you for how
      you've been handling all these comments. I must say you're starting to convince
      me :-)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThanks Jasper! As you know, many of the best minds
      in the type world are members of the Typophile community, so we knew that we
      would be facing our toughest critics. That's why we chose to announce FontSlice
      here first, figuring that whatever didn't kill us would make us stronger. Most
      importantly, this process has made us more aware of what is important to the
      type community. We want FontSlice to be fully vetted <em>before</em> we launch."
    created: '2012-04-04 19:50:49'
  created: '2012-04-03 21:32:14'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: Working demo?
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Jones
      picture: 123881
    body: "<blockquote><strong>Jackson: </strong>Working demo?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHey
      Jackson. All the foundries that have contacted us directly have already been
      given access to the closed beta. If you're potentially interested in a distribution
      agreement and would like access to the beta, you can email us at foundries@fontslice.com."
    created: '2012-04-04 19:56:46'
  created: '2012-04-04 17:35:03'
date: '2012-03-24 08:45:48'
title: 'FontSlice: Distribution Evolved'

---
