---
author:
  name: Denis_Masharov
  picture: 123907
body: "I participated in FaceBook discussions about the differences in the details
  of letters (drops, terminals etc.)\r\nIt was two opinions:\r\n\r\n1. Legibility
  should base on the ability to small differences between characters. The more equal
  the more difficult to read.\r\n\r\n2. Even the smallest differences in the details
  \"separates\" letter from the word, draws attention to it and thus slowing reading.\r\n\r\nLegibility
  - helps or hinders readability?\r\n\r\nIn both views there is a grain of truth...
  I'm confused...\r\nHelp me understand, please feel free to express your opinion.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I think it is about achieving a balance. The letters of a writing system
    should be \u2018of one stock\u2019, e.g. shaped out of some common ground pattern
    /model in order to form a unit. But the single parts need to be sufficiently different
    on the other hand, to make them distinguishable enough and avoid confusion. Both
    issues will distract the reader\u2019s eye from comfortable recognition: too much
    similarity, and too much diversity.\r\n\r\nI once found the thorough study of
    Bembo quite enlightening about those questions."
  created: '2012-03-29 10:20:55'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I give you my opinion as a reader, as I am not working in this industry.
    I find a too \u201Creductionistic\u201D font bland in a way that the letter or
    words actually \u201Cblur\u201D more. It is harder for me to read. On the other
    hand a font which is skillfully crafted but too fancy might seem inappropriate
    for the context, but was never hard to read for me. As far as I know we do not
    identify single letters after each other but word shapes or syllable shapes and
    so I think adding more character to the individual letters will help to distinct
    syllables and words from each other, and will not distract. This is because (afaik)
    we do not pay too much attention to the individual letter, but to groups of letters.
    \r\nThis is based on my reading experience with serif fonts. With sans I find
    this question harder to answer. Do humanistic models have more diversity of letter
    shapes compared to geometric sans faces? Or do they follow different principles?"
  created: '2012-03-29 11:03:27'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I struggled with this question and all these vague definitions of legibility
    and readability myself. \r\nHere is how I sorted it out: http://opentype.info/blog/2011/04/25/the-onion-layer-model-of-legibility/"
  created: '2012-03-29 11:36:01'
- author:
    name: Denis_Masharov
    picture: 123907
  body: '@Ralf Herrmann  - excellent essay, I''m impressed, thank you!'
  created: '2012-03-29 14:18:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Based on my own work and on the work I rediscovered of Matthew Luckiesh,
    I think that differentiation is important up to a threshold, but beyond that other
    factors become more important. For example, serifs help by differentiating the
    extremes of letters, which seem according to research to be more salient in recognizing
    letters. But beyond a threshold further differentiation of letters becomes 'noise',
    and doesn't help and can be distracting.  Above the threshold of adequate differentiation
    of individual letters, more important are issues of weight and rhythm of the characters
    and of the spacing. \r\n\r\n[[http://ilovetypography.com/2010/11/02/reviving-caslon-part-2-readability-affability-authority/|Here
    is an account of my own explorations.]] \r\n\r\nAnd [[typophile.com/node/83684|here
    is a discussion of Luckiesh's work.]] "
  created: '2012-03-29 15:10:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's always nice to see a discussion where the opposition\r\nof legibility
    and readability is discussed. It seems like a\r\nparadox, but I've believed in
    the difference between the\r\ntwo for a while now. In terms of visualizing how
    they\r\nrelate, I find it useful to refer to geometry: imagine two\r\nvectors
    at a right angle, so separated by 90 degrees. So\r\nthey're both pointing towards
    the same \"quadrant\" but\r\nthey also oppose each other to an important extent,\r\nand
    the balance one needs to find depends on how far\r\none wants to push into immersive
    reading; the further\r\nyou push into it the more letters need to contribute to\r\ndivergent
    boumas, as opposed to merely being divergent\r\non their own.\r\n\r\nSo for example
    sans letterforms are easier to identify,\r\nbut serif forms \"talk to each other\"
    better, essentially\r\nbecoming less themselves. And if you look at Legato\r\nfor
    example, the whites of the letters talk to each other\r\ninstead of with their
    own blacks, creating what I see\r\nas much stronger bouma bonding.\r\n\r\nIt's
    also important to realize that it's quite trivial to ensure\r\nlegibility: people
    can read almost any letterform if given\r\nenough time. And this is where the
    expressive dimension\r\nof type (think of display type) nicely comes in. This
    doesn't\r\nmean text fonts can't be expressive, it's that they express\r\nthemselves
    more at the level of overall texture.\r\n\r\nBTW, here's something light I once
    put together:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html\r\nFor a much deeper
    treatment you could read\r\nmy article in issue #13 of Typo magazine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-29 16:42:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, I forgot to address an important aspect of the question:\r\nHow much
    divergence is too much? To me this answer is simpler\r\nthan one might think:
    the divergence is too much when the reader's\r\neye jumps too far ahead (to a
    subsequent line) because it's distracted\r\nby an unusual texture (which often
    happens when a \"pushy\" glyph is\r\ndoubled - often the binocular \"g\", especially
    the closed-bottom form).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-29 17:23:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Can anyone point to empirical evidence that making letters less individually
    recognisable ever results in improved word recognition? Or vice versa? Or that
    making either letters or words less recognisable ever decreases reading fatigue?
    [Word recognition and comfort over time seem to me the cornerstones of any measurable
    notion of readability.]\r\n\r\nI don't think there is an opposition between legibility
    and readability <em>if</em> one assumes spatial frequency and stylistic harmony,
    which is a general assumption of type design and typography: we don't make or
    use 'ransom note' typefaces for reading, we make and use types which operate within
    single spatial frequency channels and that share stylistic features that allow
    the necessarily individuated forms of letters to be grouped without individual
    letters standing out. In order for legibility to be even independent of readability
    -- never mind 'in opposition' --, one first needs to throw out the spatial frequency
    and stylistic harmony, hence disrupting word recognition. In other words you need
    to throw out typography.\r\n\r\nHrant: <em>So for example sans letterforms are
    easier to identify, but serif forms \"talk to each other\" better, essentially
    becoming less themselves. And if you look at Legato for example, the whites of
    the letters talk to each other instead of with their own blacks, creating what
    I see as much stronger bouma bonding.</em>\r\n\r\nLess themselves? That would
    imply that the letters that 'talk to each other better' -- and I agree that this
    is one of the virtues of Legato -- are less individually recognisable than letters
    that talk less well to each other and are, by your logic, more themselves. This
    makes absolutely no sense to me whatsoever. There is no opposition, there is no
    zero sum game in which working well to form recognisable words -- or 'stronger
    bouma bonding' if you insist -- requires the individual letters to be less legible.
    There is no reason at all why better recognisability of individual letters and
    better recognisability of words do not go hand-in-hand."
  created: '2012-03-29 18:48:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me it makes sense because reading is parallel:\r\nthe bouma is fighting
    to be recognized as fast as\r\nthe individual letters; without help it will usually\r\nlose,
    and since reading a bouma saves time/effort,\r\nthis slows down reading. The good
    news is that\r\nlegibility is so easy to ensure that we have a lot\r\nmore room
    to play than we might think.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-29 19:06:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right, Andreas.\r\nLegibility vs. readability is not a discussion worth having
    in general or theoretical terms, it only makes sense when applied to the instance.\r\nOne
    might just as well say strength vs. weight, with regard to cars or wine glasses.\r\nIt\u2019s
    the designer\u2019s task to optimize both, within the speci\uFB01c constraints
    of a product. "
  created: '2012-03-29 19:16:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John,  your question about legibility raises the question of what 'legibility'
    means. Luckiesh wanted to avoid the term because he thought is was too unclear.
    Tinker used it to refer basically to reading speed. Lieberman defines it (following
    some work in the '60s) as ease of distinguishing individual letters. That could
    be tested by minimum time threshold for recognition of letters with accuracy to
    a specified level. Or you might mean something tested by a contrast threshold.
    There is also the question of what distance you can recognize a character. These
    might not all be the same. \r\n\r\nThen speed of individual letter recognition
    and word recognition might be not totally go together, because of issue of coherence
    and spacing and rhythm in the font. And comfort in reading lengthy text is yet
    again a different question. \r\n\r\nAbove I wrote about differentiation of letters,
    rather than legibility, but I suspect that also legibility of individual letters
    affects readability up to a threshold, and then other factors dominate. "
  created: '2012-03-29 19:21:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I would think the answer to the issue raised in the initial post is \"obvious\".\r\n\r\nThe
    differences between individual letters that people expect to find in order to
    distinguish them need to be readily visible. This is why, for example, learning
    to read Hebrew would be more difficult than learning to read Armenian - some letters
    have very tiny differences.\r\n\r\nBut any irrelevant differences are distracting.
    If the descenders are of different lengths on a p and a q, since descender length
    isn't one of the expected distinctions between the two letters, this difference
    will only be a distraction."
  created: '2012-03-29 19:54:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Then speed of individual letter recognition and word recognition
    might be not totally go together, because of issue of coherence and spacing and
    rhythm in the font.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, absolutely good recognisability of individual
    letters cannot compensate for bad typography. But as I said, typography presumes
    a lot of stuff that naturally bring letter recognition and word recognition into
    alignment: spatial frequency and stylistic harmony (coherence) and, of course,
    spacing and -- duck, Hrant -- ryhthm. The latter so much presumed that I didn't
    even mention them.\r\n\r\nYes, if you isolate and any of these normal features
    of text typography -- if you change font weights suddenly in the middle of a word,
    or mix serif and sans serif letters in a word, or track out the spacing so that
    the letters don't knit together, or vary the spacing or widths of individual letters
    so as to break up the rhythm -- then word recognition will fail long before individual
    letter recognition fails. But then we're not talking about typography any more."
  created: '2012-03-29 20:01:56'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "John: Can anyone point to empirical evidence that making letters less individually
    recognizable ever results in improved word recognition?\r\n\r\nAs has been hinted
    at, there is empirical evidence that individual letters are recognized more accurately
    in time and distance threshold tasks when there is a more space between letters,
    but that reading speed is faster when there is less space between letters (but
    more between words).\r\n\r\nIn most cases I believe that faster and more accurate
    letter recognition will lead to faster and more accurate word recognition.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-29 23:25:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is empirical evidence that .... reading speed\r\n> is faster when
    there is less space between letters\r\n\r\nI missed that! Could you provide the
    reference?\r\nAlso, could you explain it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-29 23:27:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Kevin, to clarify, when I referred to 'making letters less individually recognisable',
    I meant making their design less individually recognisable, not altering their
    setting. It makes sense that individual letters are quicker to recognise without
    crowding but that words composed of those letters are quicker to recognise when
    the letters are closer together and the words clearly spaced. But that is about
    the setting of the letters, not their individual recognisability. What I am suggesting  is
    that letters that are difficult to recognise individually will make words similarly
    difficult to recognise, and words that are easy to recognise individually will
    make words easy to recognise. What I'm enquiring about is counter evidence to
    this, i.e. letters that are slower to recognise individually producing faster
    word recognition. Hrant's legibility/readability opposition hypothesis seems to
    suggest this possibility, even that is should be the case.
  created: '2012-03-30 00:37:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, the confusion between the lower case l and upper case I in many fonts
    is an example of where legibility problems of letters don't seem to affect readability
    of words. I would expect that with additional ambiguous letters you would have
    more problems. \r\n\r\nPeter Enneson's theory is that the way letters are designed
    the normal tightness of letters make them less recognizable individually, but
    the sub-letter units, arranged in a regular rhythm are more recognizable as a
    whole word pattern. If he's right, that it may explain why letters that are confusable
    in isolation don't pose problems within words. I've seen this with fancy script
    caps also\u2014no problem reading in context, but out of it you don't know what
    it is. The sum of the readability of the word is not the same as the sum of the
    legibility of the individual letters. \r\n\r\nIt might be that more differentiation
    would make an isolated letter easier to distinguish, but it may be harder to read
    in the crowded situation of words. For example some blackletter with a lot of
    hairlines, or some script fonts. \r\n\r\nI haven't thought this through yet, but
    it's an interesting question, particularly as a possible way to test Peter's theory. "
  created: '2012-03-30 00:52:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Kevin: \u201C<em>\u2026there is empirical evidence that individual letters
    are recognized more accurately in time and distance threshold tasks when there
    is a more space between letters, but that reading speed is faster when there is
    less space between letters</em>\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nReferences?"
  created: '2012-03-30 01:37:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "RSVP is highly unnatural.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 03:21:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "RSVP is weird.\r\nThe whole point of reading is that you\u2019re in control,
    creating meaning, probing, traversing swaths of text at your own speed and in
    your own manner, with carefully aimed saccade bursts, not being force-fed. [Crossed
    post!]"
  created: '2012-03-30 03:33:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Rubin, G. S. & Turano, K. (1992). Reading without saccadic eye movements.
    <em>Vision Research, 32(5)</em>, 895\u2013902.\r\n\r\nAbstract:\r\nTo assess the
    limitation on reading speed imposed by saccadic eye movements, we measured reading
    speed in 13 normally-sighted observers using two modes of text presentations:
    PAGE text which presents an entire passage conventionally in static, paragraph
    format, and rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) which presents text sequentially,
    one word at a time at the same location in the visual field. In Expt 1, subjects
    read PAGE and RSVP text orally across a wide range of letter sizes (2X to 32X
    single-letter acuity) and reading speed was computed from the number of correct
    words read per minute. Reading speeds were consistently faster for RSVP compared
    to PAGE text at all letter sizes tested. The average speeds for text of an intermediate
    letter size (8X acuity) were 1171 words/min for RSVP and 303 words/min for PAGE
    text. In Expt 2 subjects read PAGE and RSVP text silently and a multiple-choice
    comprehension test was administered after each passage. All subjects continued
    to read RSVP text faster, and 6 subjects read at the maximum testable rate (1652
    words/min) with at least 75% correct on the comprehension tests. Experiment 3
    assessed the minimum word exposure time required for decoding text using RSVP
    to minimize potential delays due to saccadic eye movement control. Successive
    words were presented for a fixed duration (word duration) with a blank interval
    (ISI) between words. The minimum word duration required for accurate oral reading
    averaged 69.4 msec and was not reduced by increasing ISI. We interpret these results
    as an indication that the programming and execution of saccadic eye movements
    impose an upper limit on conventional reading speed.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nIn
    a growing market of small screen mobile devices I suspect that more research will
    be done in this area. Now if there were only some way to ease and expedite the
    grant application process\u2019 and ethics protocols\u2026"
  created: '2012-03-30 04:48:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually believe that saccade-free reading is not only\r\nachievable, but
    also highly desirable. However this does\r\nnot mean using RSVP to figure out
    how we currently\r\nread has any merit.\r\n\r\nBTW, high-performance saccade-free
    reading cannot\r\ninvolve machine pacing; what I mean is that the reader\r\nmust
    remain in control of the refreshing of the display*.\r\nFurthermore, the main
    advantage I see to saccade-free\r\nreading would be the displaying of increasingly
    large text\r\nin proportion to the distance from the fixation point; this\r\nwould
    be in order to overcome the acuity decrease of the\r\nretina, basically allowing
    for the recognition of boumas\r\nmuch deeper into the field of vision.\r\n\r\n*
    How? Good question.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 04:51:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Regarding pacing, I saw a fascinating demonstration where the time a word
    was displayed was increased or decreased depending on it\u2019s importance (ie:
    words such as \u2018of\u2019 and \u2018the\u2019 were displayed for shorter times).
    While not controlled by the user, it resulted in significantly faster reading
    rates. I believe it was in a presentation from my old supervisor. I\u2019ll see
    if I can dig it up. It\u2019s quite striking.\r\n\r\nDefining word categories
    and durations for and between them should be achievable. This has most certainly
    been done, but would require a little more looking (however, it\u2019s getting
    late, and I\u2019m only two episodes away the series finale after re-watching
    all of Cheers. Season 11, episode 22, is still funny enough to bring me to tears
    ;)\r\n\r\n|_|) "
  created: '2012-03-30 05:30:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Bill, what I asked was whether there was any evidence that making letters
    less legible ever results in <em>improved</em> word recognition, i.e. made it
    <em>better</em> than when the letters were more legible. Yes, there are some difficult
    to recognise or ambiguous letter forms that, in the context of words, do not pose
    the same level of difficulty as in isolation, presumably because of linguistic
    context clues. But this is not the same thing at all as suggesting that less legible
    letters might improve word recognition, which seems to be the implication of Hrant''s
    opposition of legibility and readability, or the converse: that optimising letters
    for individual recognisability might actually hamper readability.'
  created: '2012-03-30 05:51:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the time a word was displayed was increased or decreased\r\n\r\nI would
    posit that the minimum duration a word needs\r\nto be exposed to be read with
    near-total accuracy is roughly\r\nproportional to some compound of its frequency
    and bouma\r\ndistinctiveness. Roughly, because foveal decoding is different\r\nthan
    parafoveal decoding, with the latter playing a very large\r\nrole in reading,
    at least according to the model I believe in.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 06:01:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>I actually believe that saccade-free reading is not only achievable,
    but also highly desirable.</em>\r\n\r\nHmm. A saccade is a zero-input eye movement
    between fixations. The shorter the saccades and the longer the fixations, the
    slower the reading. The longer the saccades and the shorter the fixations the
    faster the reading. The upper limit of reading speed has always been comprehension:
    the longer the saccades and the shorter the fixations, the greater the chance
    of comprehension error and the more regressive saccades necessary to correct false
    readings. Even at these highest, most error prone speeds, though, the mechanism
    of reading remains the same: fixation and saccade. Not only do I not see grounds
    to consider 'saccade-free reading' achievable, I can't even imagine what it would
    be like. If you're getting rid of saccades, that implies you are also getting
    rid of fixations, since the two are part of a single mechanism. So what is left?
    What is the mechanism of 'saccade-free reading'? How does it work?"
  created: '2012-03-30 06:08:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Perhaps I don\u2019t understand the question, \u201C<em>What is the mechanism
    of 'saccade-free reading'? How does it work?</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nYou put on eye
    tracking equipment, look at a dot, present words in an RSVP fashion, and ask the
    subject questions about what they just read. Look at the eye-tracker data, their
    eyes haven\u2019t moved, and presto, saccade-free reading. It\u2019s just one
    long fixation. It\u2019s clearly possible to attend to a single location without
    eye movements, I watch people in a lab do this all day. If their eyes move, the
    trial ends, and they try again. Are we on the same page?\r\n\r\nRegarding \u201C<em>I
    would posit that the minimum duration a word needs to be exposed to be read with
    near-total accuracy is roughly proportional to some compound of its frequency
    and bouma distinctiveness.</em>\u201D It is my understanding that frequency and
    semantics play the primary roles in determining duration. Again, I\u2019d have
    to do a little more digging to find references to support this, but I know there\u2019s
    a lot out there on just that."
  created: '2012-03-30 07:19:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Kevin: \u201C<em>Can anyone point to empirical evidence that making letters
    less individually recognizable ever results in improved word recognition?</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nNot
    to my knowledge, but after a quick scan, I came across these two which I thought
    I\u2019d throw out there for discussion (The second authour of the first paper
    caught my eye \u2014 pun intended).\r\n \r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nBouwhuis,
    D. & Bouma, H. (1977). Visual word recognition of three-letter words as derived
    from the recognition of the\r\nconstituent letters<em>. Perception & Psychophysics,
    25 (1)</em>, 12\u201322.\r\n\r\nAbstract:\r\nWord recognition is one of the basic
    processes involved in reading. In this connection, a model for word recognition
    is proposed consisting of a perceptual and a decision stage. It is supposed that,
    in the perceptual stage, the formation of possible words proceeds by separate
    identification of each of the letters of the stimulus word in their positions.
    Letter perception is taken to be conditional on position because of interaction
    effects from neighboring letters. These effects are dependent on both position
    in the word and retinal eccentricity, which are of particular relevance in reading.
    The letter-based approach rests on the strong relationship between the results
    from single-letter recognition in meaningless strings and in real words. Next,
    in the decision step, the many alternatives generated in the perceptual stage
    are matched with a vocabulary of real words. It is supposed that the final choice
    from among the remaining words is made in accordance with the constant ratio rule;
    frequency effects are not separately incorporated in the model. All predictions
    of the model are generated by means of data from earlier experiments. Despite
    being not optimally suited for this purpose, the predictions compare favorably
    with responses in word-recognition experiments.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nLegge,
    G. E., Mansfield, J. S. & Chung, S. T. L. (2001). Psychophysics of reading XX.
    Linking letter recognition to reading speed in central and peripheral vision.
    <em>Vision Research, 41</em>, 725\u2013743.\r\n\r\nAbstract:\r\nOur goal is to
    link spatial and temporal properties of letter recognition to reading speed for
    text viewed centrally or in peripheral vision. We propose that the size of the
    visual span \u2014 the number of letters recognizable in a glance \u2014 imposes
    a fundamental limit on reading speed, and that shrinkage of the visual span in
    peripheral vision accounts for slower peripheral reading. In Experiment 1, we
    estimated the size of the visual span in the lower visual field by measuring RSVP
    (rapid serial visual presentation) reading times as a function of word length.
    The size of the visual span decreased from at least 10 letters in central vision
    to 1.7 letters at 15\xB0 eccentricity, in good agreement with the corresponding
    reduction of reading speed measured by Chung and coworkers (Chung, S. T. L., Mansfield,
    J. S., & Legge, G. E. (1998). Psychophysics of reading. XVIII. The effect of print
    size on reading speed in normal peripheral vision. Vision Research, 38, 2949\u20132962).
    In Exp. 2, we measured letter recognition for trigrams (random strings of three
    letters) as a function of their position on horizontal lines passing through fixation
    (central vision) or displaced downward into the lower visual field (5, 10 and
    20\xB0). We also varied trigram presentation time. We used these data to construct
    visual-span profiles of letter accuracy versus letter position. These profiles
    were used as input to a parameter-free model whose output was RSVP reading speed.
    A version of this model containing a simple lexical-matching rule accounted for
    RSVP reading speed in central vision. Failure of this version of the model in
    peripheral vision indicated that people rely more on lexical inference to support
    peripheral reading. We conclude that spatiotemporal characteristics of the visual
    span limit RSVP reading speed in central vision, and that shrinkage of the visual
    span results in slower reading in peripheral vision.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nI
    think a simple series of RSVP word recognition tasks using trigrams and different
    fonts for individual letters would be a step towards answering this question.
    \r\n\r\n#ifyoureagradstudentijustgaveyouyourthesis"
  created: '2012-03-30 07:24:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The main problems with RSVP:\r\n- The parafovea is ignored.\r\n- The pacing
    is artificial.\r\n\r\nJust one of those would be enough to kill RSVP in terms
    of\r\nproviding true insight into immersive reading. With two the\r\nsecond one
    can sit on the grave and make sure nobody lays\r\nany flowers. But some people
    still have a shrine at home.\r\n\r\nBTW, the reason boumas (assuming that's even
    being tested\r\nas a data source) seem irrelevant in RSVP is because in the\r\nfovea
    you don't need boumas: the individual letters are clear\r\nenough to unambiguously
    compose the word.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 14:08:47'
- author:
    name: Denis_Masharov
    picture: 123907
  body: I understand so - that the important thing is not to cross the line between
    "recognizability" and "personality" of the letter.
  created: '2012-03-30 15:09:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I was trying to argue that there is not a linear relationship between
    the legibility of individual letters, summed, and the recognition of those letters
    in a word, even if they are well spaced. I don't know if it's true, but I can
    imagine that ornate, highly differentiated letters might be easier to distinguish,
    but do worse in word tests. By letter legibility I mean that the letters could
    be recognized in very short, millisecond times, without many errors. And the same
    for \"word legibility\": recognition in short time periods, reliably. I don't
    understand Hrant's theory, but on Peter's that might be possible. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-03-30 15:35:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Has there ever been any research or even discussion on what is \"readable
    enough for a given task\".  One end of a continuum might be a phone book number
    and another might be \"War and Peace\".  We could place things like brochures,
    ads, posters, etc.., wherever they may fall.\r\nMy point in this is that I assume
    there are points where the optimum for one task differs from another.  There is
    a place where the form of the typeface may aid communication of the message of
    the text yet reduce continual reading.  There may be a place where the form of
    the text has so little communication of content (beyond just as a letterform)
    as to be a non-factor.  \r\nWhen designing a typeface for a given target use,
    it might be valuable to know where these breaks occur."
  created: '2012-03-30 18:54:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If you stare at one point fixedly enough to suppress saccades,\r\n> within
    seconds your visual field will narrow to a small point.\r\n\r\nI'm assuming that
    doesn't happen when the view\r\nis changing, otherwise RSVP couldn't even exist.\r\n\r\n>
    healthy reading of extended texts (i.e. where the\r\n> reader is not moving his
    lips) <em>is</em> mostly saccade-free\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIf there could
    be a good way for a reader to trigger the refreshing of\r\nthe display* then we
    should be able to read [even more] immersively\r\nby not having to saccade (even
    if my technique of enlarging** text in\r\nproportion to parafoveal depth isn't
    implemented).\r\n\r\n* <em>And</em> a way to trigger a regression...\r\n\r\n**
    And probably also loosening.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 19:30:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>I actually believe that saccade-free reading is not only\r\nachievable,
    but also highly desirable.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis comment might be more controversial
    than it deserves to be, on the basis of the fact that saccade-free <em>seeing</em>
    is not possible. If you stare at one point fixedly enough to suppress saccades,
    within seconds your visual field will narrow to a small point.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    while <em>eye movement</em> is an essential component of vision, <em>and hence
    of reading</em>,  and, on top of that, the saccade is typically a largely <em>involuntary</em>
    motion... you're still not nearly as wrong as all this makes you sound.\r\n\r\nBecause,
    of course, when reading, one doesn't stare at a single word, with one's eyes wandering
    back and forth along that word, the way one watches a movie or TV screen, or even
    admires a painting or sculpture.\r\n\r\nOne's gaze is in constant motion, but
    even with occasional saccades, in general, over the majority of words, one's gaze
    <em>will</em> pass unidirectionally, if one is reading at a good speed. Only if
    one is reading very slowly will a saccade be likely to take place during the reading
    of the majority of the words, or, say, even the majority of the words longer than
    three letters.\r\n\r\nThus, despite the universality of the saccade, the time
    scale of that phenomenon needs to be kept in mind. Normal, healthy reading of
    extended texts (i.e. where the reader is not moving his lips) <em>is</em> mostly
    saccade-free, and proper typography will facilitate that.\r\n\r\n@Christopher
    Dean:\r\n<cite>You put on eye tracking equipment, look at a dot, present words
    in an RSVP fashion, and ask the subject questions about what they just read. Look
    at the eye-tracker data, their eyes haven\u2019t moved, and presto, saccade-free
    reading. It\u2019s just one long fixation.</cite>\r\n\r\nPossibly I misunderstood
    Hrant's comment, if in order to engage in the saccade-free reading of a book,
    it is necessary to somehow have its pages presented to me as one word at a time
    flashed on a screen.\r\n\r\nBut in checking, I see I misunderstood the word \"saccade\",
    and was mistakenly restricting it to involuntary movements of which we are generally
    not consciously aware which allow us to look at a wider visual field than our
    fovea can handle.\r\n\r\nThose shouldn't normally be part of reading, but the
    voluntary movement of the eye from one word or part of a word to the next also
    counts as a saccade - and, indeed, some words are long enough not to be contained
    in the fovea if presented in a legible size.\r\n\r\nOne <em>could</em> still see
    the whole shape of a word and recognize it without having applied acute foveal
    vision to every letter of the word, but I think it would take a dedicated speed-reading
    enthusiast to be able to employ such a technique to advantage."
  created: '2012-03-30 19:31:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: While you (Hrant) were replying to my post, I was editing it to reply to Christopher
    Dean's post as well as yours. Hopefully, things are clarified a bit.
  created: '2012-03-30 19:33:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Christopher, I wasn't talking about RSVP -- and I don't think Hrant was either.
    Based on previous discussions going back several years, I understand Hrant to
    believe it is possible to massively increase typical reading speeds, not involving
    presenting text in new ways \xE0 la RSVP. So I'm interested to know how Hrant
    sees 'saccade-free reading' working.\r\n\r\n[Personally, I consider RSVP a kind
    of parlour game, sort of interesting in that it shows that our word recognition
    skills are immediately adaptable to 'reading' text presented in novel ways. But
    it doesn't seem to me very relevant to how we actually encounter text, to how
    we are likely to continue to encounter text, or to understanding a reading mechanism
    broken down into saccades and fixations.]"
  created: '2012-03-30 19:53:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Uh, if we agree that \"massive\" is like 20%, OK.  :-)\r\nThat's if we start
    making fonts like we're supposed\r\nto, as opposed to how we've been making them.\r\n\r\nTo
    go beyond that I believe we do in fact need\r\nto move to the \"active display\"
    of text, instead\r\nof forcing the reader to keep moving his field\r\nof vision,
    not to mention his neck, hands, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 19:59:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Aside:\r\n\r\n<em>If you stare at one point fixedly enough to suppress saccades,
    within seconds your visual field will narrow to a small point.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    can produce some very cool optical effects. I was staring at the Blessed Sacrament
    exposed at a href=\"http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5257/5461485268_403245c316.jpg\">Brompton
    Oratory</a>, and suddenly a massive baroque church all became disconcertingly
    parafoveal."
  created: '2012-03-30 20:01:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I don't think there is a strictly linear relationship between letter
    recognition and word recognition, but I do think they are mutually supporting,
    not in opposition, and improve or degrade more or less in parallel. Linguistic
    context gives word recognition an advantage that enables some letters to be more
    easily recognised in words than in isolation, but  I don't see any basis to assume
    that such letters result in better word recognition than more individually legible
    ones would.\r\n\r\nI do think, however, that individual letter recognisability
    probably gives diminishing returns to word recognition, which is why reading speeds
    seem only marginally affected across a significant range of typeface designs and
    styles. In other words, endlessly refining individual letter recognisability will
    obtain smaller and smaller gains in reading speed and accuracy. But the point
    is that they do seem to continue to move in the same direction, albeit at increasingly
    disproportionate rates. There doesn't seem to be a point at which improving individual
    letter recognisability <em>degrades</em> word recognisability."
  created: '2012-03-30 20:10:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, let me try an actual image (although I feel that the\r\nimaginative requirement
    of textual communication is\r\ngenerally more fruiful)...\r\n\r\nTaking the invented
    phrase from my (admittedly\r\nextremely over-simple) \"How We Read\" page*:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/active_text_display_5554.gif]\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html\r\n\r\nImagine this is what an \"active
    text display\" (which I\r\nnow dub AcTeD :-) would show when the fixation is at\r\n\"wasn't\".
    In addition though I would probably change\r\nthe serif-ness of the text, from
    none at the fovea to full\r\nserifs in the parafovea. (But I'm not yet sure the
    \"He\"\r\nthere makes sense).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 20:14:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, that's an interesting image. One thing I wonder is how the brain would
    cue the next fixation if the text setting is changing so completely during the
    saccade and, of course, how would the AcTeD system know where that next fixation
    would be until it happened, which is too late to change the display?
  created: '2012-03-30 20:23:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Uh, if we agree that \"massive\" is like 20%, OK.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    Thessaloniki you were claiming c. 700 words per minute. No?\r\n\r\nAverage adult
    reading speed in English is 250 words per minute. More significant to my mind
    is that average comprehension at that rate is only 70%. Comprehension demonstrably
    drops as reading speed increased, with tested 'speed readers' averaging a mere
    50% in comprehension.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm of the perhaps idiosyncratic opinion that
    the purpose of reading is to understand, so I'm only interested in increases in
    reading speed that do not reduce comprehension, and most of the time wish that
    people would take the time to read more slowly."
  created: '2012-03-30 20:23:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I actually believe experienced readers (the best and only real\r\nbenchmark)
    can do over 400 wpm now, with existing typography.\r\nThose much lower numbers
    are from flawed (far too fovea-centric)\r\nexperiments. But maybe 700 was sensationalist,
    sorry. Although I\r\ndo think that an AcTeD system could exceed that.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I do wish Kevin would point to the experiment that\r\nhe said shows improved reading
    with tighter spacing.\r\n\r\n> I'm only interested in increases in reading\r\n>
    speed that do not reduce comprehension\r\n\r\nMe too.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nGood questions
    (including some I already\r\nwondered about above). Let's figure them out.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 20:28:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the experiment that he said shows improved reading with tighter spacing.\r\n\r\nKevin
    may (or may not) be alluding to [[http://www.springerlink.com/content/l305450683505715/|this
    paper,]] which found that the word superiority effect disappears with very widely
    spaced letters. I predicted that this should happen on Peter Enneson's theory.
    Peter then did a literature search and found this paper, which had already demonstrated
    this. Kevin was kind enough to repeat some of the experiments, with variations,
    but his conditions didn't have the same precision as the early ones, done with
    a tachistoscope and printed matter, rather than on a computer, whose screen refresh
    is on the order of the times involved in flashing the words. And the results were
    not very clear. Peter's view is that to get more informative results we need a
    good control on what is called the SOA (stimulus onset asynchrony). But it's probably
    too much to try to get into this here. "
  created: '2012-03-30 20:47:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since one thing has emerged from this discussion:\r\n\r\nletter recognition
    bad\r\nword recognition good\r\n\r\nit has occurred to me how this new insight
    can be translated into a weird new typeface designed to supercharge the readability
    of text!\r\n\r\nSince descenders and ascenders play such an important role in
    determining the shape of a word, have them become gradually bolder as they extend
    away from the x-height region of the letter.\r\n\r\nOf course, the difference
    between, say, a, v, and r individually, and c, e, and o on the other hand, also
    affects word shape, so something might be done to exaggerate the general shape
    characteristics of small letters."
  created: '2012-03-30 22:31:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Since descenders and ascenders play such an important role in determining
    the shape of a word, have them become gradually bolder as they extend away from
    the x-height region of the letter.\r\n\r\nThey're called serifs :)  And with old
    styles there is often swelling toward the serifs...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 22:39:14'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I haven\u2019t quickly found a reference showing that letters are more accurately
    recognized in time and distance threshold tasks with more space between them.
    I suspect that Bouwhuis & Bouma first showed this and that Pelli has shown this
    in his crowding studies. I am confident that Sheedy\u2019s lab has done this with
    a distance threshold task, but I haven\u2019t found a publication of this finding,
    and I have replicated this in a unpublished time threshold study. I\u2019ll be
    talking about that study at the upcoming Digital Reading conference.\r\n\r\nRayner\u2019s
    lab has published some of the findings showing that reading speed is faster with
    Consolas and Georgia when letter space is decreased and word space is increased.\r\n\r\nRayner,
    K., Slattery, T.J., B\xE9langer, N. (2010). Eye movements, the perceptual span,
    \ and reading speed. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 17 (6), 834-839.\r\n\r\nAbstract:\r\nThe
    perceptual span or region of effective vision during eye fixations in reading
    was examined as a function of reading speed (fast readers were compared with slow
    readers), font characteristics (fixed width vs. proportional width), and intraword
    spacing (normal or reduced). The main findings were that fast readers (reading
    at about 330 wpm) had a larger perceptual span than did slow readers (reading
    about 200 wpm) and that the span was not affected by whether or not the text was
    fixed width or proportional width. In addition, there were interesting font and
    intraword spacing effects that have important implications for the optimal use
    of space in a line of text.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 22:58:19'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Again, I agree with John that I believe that word recognition will generally
    follow letter recognition. Easy to recognize letters will lead to easy to recognize
    words.\r\n\r\nBut in the interest adding meat to those that disagree, Arnold Wilkins
    has an interesting line of research where he demonstrates that fonts with very
    high periodicity (e.g. the picket fence) lead to slower reading speeds. He has
    also demonstrated that modifying the letter shapes to reduce the picket fence
    effect increases reading speed. He didn\u2019t look at letter recognition for
    his modified letter forms, but I assume that would perform poorer on a letter
    recognition test.\r\n\r\nWilkins, A., et.al. (2007). Stripes within words affect
    reading. Perception, 36, 1788-1803.\r\nhttp://www.essex.ac.uk/psychology/overlays/2007-177.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-30 23:09:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@William Berkson:\r\n<cite>And with old styles there is often swelling toward
    the serifs...</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but I'm thinking of something on the order of
    the recent attempt at a typeface designed to mitigate dyslexia. Here is the illustration
    I was drawing to modify my earlier reply:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/exag_6245.jpg]"
  created: '2012-03-30 23:27:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: That image amuses me. It makes heavier and draws attention to elements that
    in 5 out of 6 ascenders are identical despite the fact that they are part of different
    letters. How is that supposed to help anyone, let alone dyslexics?
  created: '2012-03-31 00:12:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kevin, I'm trying to understand what changes Wilkins made to letterforms,
    but am having trouble making sense of his description and illustrations. In the
    abstract, he writes\r\n\r\n<blockquote>By subtly distorting the horizontal dimension
    of text, and thereby reducing the first peak in the horizontal autocorrelation,
    it is shown that the speed of word recognition can be increased.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFrom
    this and the illustration, it looks as if spacing is being changed, not shapes,
    but maybe I'm misunderstanding."
  created: '2012-03-31 00:18:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kevin, thank you for those.\r\n\r\n> Digital Reading conference.\r\n\r\nI
    just looked online but was unsure what\r\nevent you mean - could you provide a
    link?\r\n\r\nJohn S:\r\nThat's the sort of thinking we need. For example if we
    really\r\nwant to test the idea that legibility and readability do exhibit\r\na
    digression and are not \"parallel\", we could make a font\r\nwhere the letters
    are hard to decipher but they come together\r\nto form great boumas. Hmmm, what
    about Blue Island?\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/blue-island/\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    taking John H's correct observation that your\r\nexample mainly emphasizes uniform
    elements (which means\r\nit only hinders reading) to its terminus, one can only
    really\r\narrive at one place: alphabet reform! :-)  My dearest -if lately\r\nmostly
    dormant- project.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 01:01:05'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I just couldn't resist to comment. Excuse my empirical and light hearted
    assumptions.\r\n\r\nAs I understand legibility is mainly concerned with what could
    be considered the efficient recognition of a given signal (message or part of
    a message). In order for a signal to be best recognized it needs to contrast it's
    ambient (noise) and to hold enough meaningful information in a simple way. Readability
    not only is concerned with the efficient recognition of signal but also with it's
    correct interpretation.\r\n\r\nA message (signal or set of signals) can be very
    legible (recognizable a as a message) by contrast and simplification, but excessive
    contrast and simplicity (let's say a monocase, square modular sans serif) will
    often harm readability because it will hold low redundancy and probably low context.
    Also a set of highly contrasted signals (an irregular type style) will induce
    noise (meaningless or even distractive signals).\r\n\r\nI had a big fire in my
    house last november, so I lost most of my books, but I recall reading one about
    legibility and semiotics (maybe by Fran\xE7ois Richardeau or Roy Harris but I'm
    not really sure) that stated something like this:\r\n\r\nAs long as the type setting
    is fairly decent, there are many factors more important to readability than typeface
    style such as context and redundancy, because reading, as a perceptive process
    is the way the mind makes sense out of the chaotic set of signals it receives
    trough the senses. Basically our mind is always trying to guess, to anticipate
    and to connect the dots to make sense, to find meaning.\r\n\r\nThere are many
    theories about how reading takes place: letter by letter, phonetic recreation
    in the mind, by word shapes, by meaningful chunks... this book stated that our
    mind actually uses a mix of various strategies to read a text with the only purpose
    of guiding and feeding the perceptive process of guessing and confirming to build
    meaning.\r\n\r\nSo a text written in an engaging way (to keep interest) with a
    predictable sintactic structure (to aid anticipation) and with lots of contextualization
    and information redundancy will help readability more than a perfectly and painstackingly
    typeset text with let's say business financial babbling. This of course is highly
    dependant on the audience because different audiences will have different degrees
    of context, redundant information and interest in the text.\r\n\r\nNow, there
    are also many reading levels as when we scan a list, or as when we are deeply
    engaged in a novel or as when we are scanning the columns of a newspaper. And
    it is true that different type styles aid each reading level in ways other type
    styles can't: \r\n\r\n* A typeface for a phone book listing will try to make more
    individual standing out letters because you want to identify as fast as possible
    small signals that will help you navigate and find your information.\r\n\r\n*
    A typeface for a book will try to create a visually ease texture with high graphic
    redundancy (that is many dull and patterned cues that will help you distinguish
    different signals) to avoid fatigue and distraction and to help you focus your
    mind on the fast building and understanding of meaning rather than in the correct
    identification of every signal. I agree with John Hudson here that the limit to
    reading speed is comprehension.\r\n\r\n* A display typeface for a billboard or
    for magazine headlines will try to create more unique word contours to help you
    guess the words without having to go letter by letter because all the context
    you have (photos and graphics) does not directly relate to the linguistics of
    the word. So your mind may have a vague idea of the meaning of the words by the
    graphic context but needs visual cues as to which specific word it is.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 02:10:07'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "John about the Wilkins paper: \"From this and the illustration, it looks
    as if spacing is being changed, not shapes, but maybe I'm misunderstanding.\"\r\n\r\nI
    see distortions of the letter shapes here. They look like they are being horizontally
    compressed and expanded. I\u2019ve seen other proposed stimuli where the vertical
    strokes were angled to further reduce the picket fence. I believe that Wilkins
    was working on this project with Paul Luna.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 03:21:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And an hour or so later the ATypI email arrives!\r\nhttp://www.rit.edu/cias/readingdigital/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 03:55:57'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I've tried to study legibilty for a short while. And then I stopped. I've
    decided that legibility is simply too illusive to discuss theoretically. Best
    trust your intuition, and don't be a chicken,  like so often with typedesign.\r\n\r\nAll
    I know is that nothing reads like Lexicon."
  created: '2012-03-31 11:08:40'
- author:
    name: Denis_Masharov
    picture: 123907
  body: "This is all of course very interesting to, but to my question no one replied.\r\nOn
    the one hand recognize the letter is on its characteristic detail, on the other
    hand is too specific detail put the attention on the letter, inhibit look at it,
    and thus interfere with reading.\r\n\r\nThe more specific details - the faster
    recognition of letters.\r\nThe more specific details - the slower the reading.\r\n\r\nThis
    contradiction."
  created: '2012-03-31 13:52:14'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@John &ndash; Why do I get the feeling that you are looking at @quadibloc's
    image as a finished design?\r\n\r\n@Denis &ndash; That seems to be one of the
    few things agreed on, that the glyphs in a text face are choir singers.\r\n\r\n@Hrant
    &ndash; But isn't that RSVP thingy a foveal-only test?"
  created: '2012-03-31 14:14:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> illusive\r\n\r\nDo you mean elusive? With that I would agree, but readability
    is\r\nno illusion (some other things in type design certainly are though).\r\n\r\nChicken?
    That's Intuition Island's entire demographic.\r\n\r\n> nothing reads like Lexicon.
    \r\n\r\nThat's puppy-love. Beauty does not equate to functionality.\r\nIf you
    do have a preference for things Dutch, look instead to\r\nthe work of Bloemsma.
    Although I guess he was half Greek.\r\n\r\n> But isn't that RSVP thingy a foveal-only
    test?\r\n\r\nYes, and that was my complaint against it. But since people\r\ncan
    read for relatively long periods using RSVP (just not very\r\nrealistically) John
    S's point about the \"collapse\" associated with\r\nstaring seems to be moot when
    the view is changing. I also\r\nthink blinking might have something to do with
    it (which Bill\r\nwill enjoy hearing, since it might tie in Luckiesh).\r\n\r\nDenis,
    threads have a way of drifting! Your main original point\r\nis very valid, there's
    just no firm answer yet*... because in fact we\r\nfirst need to work out the nitty-gritty
    this thread drifted towards.\r\n\r\n* Andreas's \"balance\" comes closest.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 14:31:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Denis, let me try:\r\n\r\n1) Make each letter contribute as much individuality\r\nto
    boumas* as possible, without triggering an errant\r\nfixation from a previous
    line - I mean when the eye\r\njumps too far ahead to check out a feature/pattern\r\nthat's
    standing out; I believe that the issue of shapes\r\n\"belonging\" with each other
    is merely a byproduct of\r\nthis, at least in terms of immersive reading.\r\n2)
    Get the whites of the letters talking to each other\r\nas much as the blacks are.\r\n\r\n*
    The shape of a word, or more\r\ngenerally of a cluster of letters.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 14:46:43'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Denis, reading a long text requires a big amount of mental effort and it
    is best done when the text has redundancy, that is that there are many cues pointing
    in the same direction. That is why serif types are commonly more comfortably read
    in long texts, they contain more visual information. That redundancy however needs
    to be part of a muted pattern because individually standing out features will
    draw attention from the process of understanding what you read into the process
    of identifying the quirk and even to the effort of systematically trying to ignore
    it.\r\n\r\nHowever if you are not inmersed in a long read but rather scanning
    a list, a table or even reading a head line or a logotype, then you have more
    room for individuality among letters.\r\n\r\nSo my direct answer is: legibililty
    is not unidimensional, it depends on the kind of perceptive process because it
    is a part of readability and so there are ways of making a text legible that will
    hinder readability of long texts but also ways that will help it."
  created: '2012-03-31 16:09:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> serif types .... contain more visual information.\r\n\r\n1) On the other
    hand serif forms have lower legibility.\r\n2) The serifs also serve to bind the
    blacks, basically\r\ncreating a higher layer of information.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 16:20:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hrant, who says serif forms have lower legibility? If they do, it would argue
    for the kind of tension between legibility and readability that Denis raises.
    The strong preference for serifs in extended printed text, in spite of widespread
    use of sans, I take as probably indicating higher readability, though this is
    not yet proven. '
  created: '2012-03-31 16:48:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think it's been shown empirically (which is easy to\r\nimagine, unlike
    the empirical proof of the superiority\r\nof serif fonts for extended reading).
    And that \"tension\"\r\nis something I believe in.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 17:03:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>How is that supposed to help anyone, let alone dyslexics?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    wasn't suggested that this was designed to help dyslexics. They were mentioned
    for comparison to the other recent typeface that <em>was</em> so designed which
    was roundly criticized.\r\n\r\nAs for helping other people to read faster: while
    this wasn't a serious proposal, the theory behind it is the following - yes, five
    letters all have the same kind of ascender. But the purpose was <strong>not</strong>
    to make individual letters easier to recognize, it was to make individual <strong>words</strong>
    easier to recognize.\r\n\r\nNot all words have letters with ascenders located
    in the same part of the word."
  created: '2012-03-31 17:28:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Denis, I think your premises are mistaken, and hence lead to a mistaken contradiction.
    What is important to legibility of individual letters is not shape or size of
    particular details -- a term I would reserve for features that contribute to the
    <em>style</em> of letter, e.g. terminal shapes, kind of serifs, etc. -- but proportional
    positioning of structural features, i.e. shape. This is well demonstrated by the
    Fiset etc. <a href="http://www.mapageweb.umontreal.ca/gosselif/FISET_PSYCHSCIENCE_2008.pdf">bubble
    testing</a>, which reveals those structural elements that are relied on for letter
    identification. If this is paired with the conclusions of Denis Pelli's work on
    spatial frequency, and the presumption made that letters and their features within
    an individual typeface design will be handled in a way that keeps them within
    a single spatial frequency channel (unlike the heavy extenders type that Quadibloc
    illustrated), then there is no ground to think that legibility relies on differences
    in details that, if emphasised, would diminish readability. Legibility relies
    on structural features, which do not need to be emphasised in ways that detract
    from word recognition.
  created: '2012-03-31 17:47:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Not all words have letters with ascenders located in the same part of
    the word.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, and there is a demonstrated role to extender position
    in <em>guessing</em> the identity of words at the edge of the fovea. But there's
    a trade-off in increasing the prominence of features to aid guessing about the
    identify of words at the edge of a fixation and doing what it best for word recognition
    within the fovea. Making the extenders significantly heavier affects the spatial
    frequency of the letters, pushing some letters or parts of letters into a different
    spatial frequency channel, which is one of the few things I am fairly sure is
    Not a Good Idea for readability."
  created: '2012-03-31 17:55:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, don't knock guessing! It's what humans do best.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 17:58:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm not knocking guessing, which is clearly part of the back end of reading,
    albeit the least reliable part. I'm saying that making changes to type to make
    correctly guessing the identity of words in the parafovea easier may have detrimental
    effect on word recognition in the fovea, or on reading comfort, or on overall
    speed, if these changes disrupt things like core legibility or spatial frequency.
    If it were possible to make these changes on-the-fly and only in the areas where
    they would help, then they might be helpful, but this introduces the same issues
    that I believe sink your AcTeD idea: you can only make such changes during a saccade,
    and until the saccade has ended you won't know where the fixation will be. Now,
    it might be possible to train text display software linked to eye-tracking to
    anticipate an individual reader's typical saccade length, and even to adjust for
    text content, e.g. lengthening saccades over short common words and shortening
    them for longer uncommon words, but I reckon that's the level of precision you
    would need to make the system at all viable, because morphing the appearance of
    text during fixations is going to be terribly distracting with, I reckon, a resulting
    major hit on speed.\r\n\r\nBy the way, important though guessing can be, I disagree
    that it is what humans do best. The inverse relationship of reading speed increase
    and comprehension accuracy indicates that we do pattern recognition better than
    we do guessing. The more we rely on guessing, the faster we can read but the more
    mistakes we make. The more we rely on pattern recognition, the slower we read
    but the fewer mistakes we make. We often favour guessing because it is faster,
    but it is a false economy if we're guessing correctly no more than half the time."
  created: '2012-03-31 21:39:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Why is reading faster better?
  created: '2012-03-31 21:43:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It isn't absolutely better, only better relative to comprehension accuracy.
    For many kinds of texts, if you can increase speed while not reducing accuracy,
    that would be a net benefit on the grounds that our mortal time is limited, so
    by reading quicker we could read more or, indeed, have more time for not reading.\r\n\r\nI
    say 'for many kinds of texts' because I strongly believe that reading speed should
    vary according to what you are reading. Much depends on what you want to get out
    of the reading experience, and I can think of plenty of things that I'd want to
    read slowly, including a lot that I'd want to read out loud (most poetry is in
    that category)."
  created: '2012-03-31 21:50:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Wilkins' figure 9 is very interesting.  Distorting parts of words to the
    left of word center via Photoshop, or whatever they're using, without changing
    word length, helped literacy challenged subjects, reading Times by 4%.\r\n\r\nThen
    they say that we, type designers, could make contextual substitutions available
    to help with gatherings of straight lowercase strokes at the focus point of a
    word. That's the problem, the in in ninja, the ini in minimum, and in itself.
    \r\n\r\nSo, I think we're supposed to make sure that the inter letter spaces between
    straight stemmed letters are clearly smaller than the counter space. None of this
    is particularly difficult in proportional fonts, but it's of course impossible
    in mono spaced fonts.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, assurance of picket-free reading is
    not possible in common low res environments and I'll leave that right there.\r\n\r\nBut
    these study results, and most reading comprehension theory has set up a conflict
    loop at the center of the readability/design circus; on one side, we're told to
    make lowercase with careful spacing and differentiation of letters without loss
    of familiarity \u2013 I call this serif text type. \r\n\r\nOn the other side,
    we're faced with applicatigons who don't want to know what widths the type designer
    wants in crude media at each size, renderacadors who've made feature location
    a hinting epic and slowpoke adoption of contextual substitution \u2013 which I
    think all calls for san serif text type.\r\n\r\nI did both serif and sans, small
    size designs with crowded inter letter spacing and open counters alREady. Which
    is my last point \u2014 using Times, a cruel Jobs joke,  to test reading, is ignoring
    five generations of design and four generations of technology \u2014 and I wish
    they'd stop.  Times Roman is broken when it comes to picket fence avoidance and
    cannot be fixed without hints or a redesign."
  created: '2012-03-31 23:11:23'
date: '2012-03-29 09:30:55'
title: Differences distract from reading - True or not ?

---
