---
author:
  name: Catharsis
  picture: 124507
body: "Dear Typophiles,\r\n\r\nalthough I've been enthousiastic about design and type
  for ages, I have no education whatsoever in those fields...  nevertheless, my interest
  often ends up making me the \"expert\" on such things. Seeing that my workplace
  (Astronomical Institute \"Anton Pannekoek\") only had an inofficial logo that someone
  had hand-drawn in Paint, I set out to design a better one.  It ended up garnering
  a lot of approval by my colleagues, and has recently been pronounced the \"official\"
  logo of the institute.\r\n\r\nHowever, personally, I'm not quite happy with the
  logo as it stands now.  I'm having this nagging feeling that there are some glaring
  typographic crimes in there that could be fixed easily (and probably without most
  people noticing), and I'd like to do so before the current logo entrenches itself
  too much. Hiring a pro is not an option \u2014 the institute is not going to pay
  money for something they think they already got for free...  ;o)  So:\r\n\r\n<strong>Please
  help me \"fix\" this logo!</strong> \r\n\r\nI'm showing two version of it here:
  A text-heavy one and a graphics-heavy one.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/api1_3857.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/api2_6167.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>Here's
  the rationale behind my design:</em>\r\n\r\nAt first sight, the graphic is supposed
  to depict the dome of an astronomical telescope facility.  On second sight, it is
  resolvable into the letters \"API\", which are the acronym commonly used for our
  institute.  The positioning of the dome on top of the text block's \"roof\" mirrors
  the location of our actual telescope domes on the roof of the university building.\r\n\r\nThe
  colors black, red, white are from Amsterdam's coat of arms.\r\n\r\nI picked the
  font (EB Garamond) to match the one in the official logo of the University of Amsterdam,
  though I suspect they're using a different (and expensive) form of Garamond.\r\n\r\n<em>Here
  are my grievances with the current design (and I'm sure you can come up with more):</em>\r\n\r\nThe
  text is fragile and becomes unreadable on, say, a PowerPoint slide, unless one were
  to make the logo rather big. That may not always be an option.\r\n\r\nThe graphic
  feels somewhat unbalanced.  The dome is not a perfect half-circle; rather, it is
  made out of two perfect quarter-circles with an offset in between...  as a result,
  I'm not happy with the not-quite-square overall proportions of the graphic.  I haven't
  figured out how to do it better, though.\r\n\r\nTaken by itself, the graphic feels
  ungrounded, like one of those Pac Man ghosts.  It needs the straight line below
  to give it some foundation.  However, I haven't found a good way to include such
  a line while preserving that unified, closed-in-itself \"badge\" feeling that good
  logos have.\r\n\r\n\r\nAny ideas? \r\n\r\nKind regards, \r\n\r\n<em>Catharsis</em>\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the idea is great.\r\nBut it's clear that the execution needs a pro.\r\n\r\nThe
    institute might have already gotten a great\r\nbasis for free, but what they didn't
    get for free, by\r\nyour own admission, is a robust end-result. I'd tell\r\nthem
    this and raise the funds to do it right.\r\n\r\nRecently:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/91614#comment-502701\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-02 16:16:00'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Working with a professional designer would be your best solution.\r\n\r\nHowever
    if you want to do it yourself, here are a few suggestions. I think your basic
    API design is clever, but I'd suggest making it using a heavier line weight. The
    \"unbalance\" you refer to doesn't bother me in the symbol itself, but I don't
    like the way it relates to the centered words below. I also don't like having
    the words in all caps, centered; it's rather dull.\r\n\r\nI'd suggest trying the
    logo on the left, and on the right have the type in 2 lines (perhaps even in 4
    lines), upper and lower case, aligned left (rather than centered). And perhaps
    in a more condensed font. \r\n\r\nThese are just offhand suggestions; you'd have
    to experiment to see if they make things better or worse.  :)\r\n\r\nAnd maybe
    there's nothing you can do about this, but it bugs me a bit that the word order
    doesn't match the symbol. The symbol says API, but the first letters of the words
    below it are AIAP. Would it be possible to change the word order to \"Anton Pannekoek
    Astronomical Institute\"? "
  created: '2012-04-02 18:06:18'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "The concept is great. You could try making the mark seriffed, because the
    accompanying text is serif.\r\n\r\nIf it is considered to use a professional designer,
    you could consider myself for the job. When/if it comes to that, just contact
    me and I can send a portfolio. :)"
  created: '2012-04-02 19:58:52'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "You know what?  I'm really starting to like those serifs.  :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serifs_ftw_4024.png]"
  created: '2012-04-03 19:27:35'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I think the contrast in the serif version really also helps emphasize the
    opening in the side of the mark. It's definitely an improvement, I think. Maybe
    you should try making the strokes on the outsides edges thinner than on the inside.
  created: '2012-04-03 21:13:58'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: Thanks! Wouldn't that destroy the neat regularity of the three stems on the
    left, though?  And thinning the strokes would also make the design even more fragile;
    I'm already worried it might suffer on PowerPoint slides.
  created: '2012-04-03 21:23:26'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: Your latest version is a huge improvement! Great progress. Have you tried
    making everything in the mark a bit thicker? Obviously without loosing the thickness
    of the negative space as well. I feel likt this could be the normal version, and
    I want to see the bold. Look at it really small and try to refine it to look great
    at that size. I think you could do a bit more with the text as well. It might
    be getting a bit too uniform and monolithic. For example, my first thought is,
    what about a horizontal rule that appears to extend the crossbar from the mark?
    Or have you tried some generous tracking? I usually like to try that with an all
    caps setting.
  created: '2012-04-03 23:53:17'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Catharsis\u2014try looking at your Garamond for inspiration. Note that the
    diagonals of the 'A' are different thicknesses. Thickening the thin parts would
    help the design too."
  created: '2012-04-04 03:19:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One thing that's gotten worse though is\r\nthe \"A\", which is too prone
    to clotting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-04 05:31:27'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Thus thinning the outside stem would help. Actually, trying to unify the stems
    better optically would help. There are large gaps of white in some places, so
    making some strokes thicker and some thinner to account for the whites better
    would help.
  created: '2012-04-04 15:02:24'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, here are some new developments.\r\n\r\nFirst, I tried out varying
    increasing the <strong>weight</strong> of the mark:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/weights_4251.png]\r\n\r\nIn
    both rows, the left version is the original, the right has thickened stems, and
    the middle one has thickened stems plus some rearrangement to keep the spaces
    free (rotating the dome to face the viewer more, basically). The upper row is
    \"extrabold\" and the lower one \"bold\".\r\n\r\nOverall, I do prefer the original
    version for its sheer elegance, but I can certainly see the use of the adjusted
    bold version (lower middle) for small sizes.\r\n\r\nAs for <strong>thinning the
    outline</strong>:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thin_outlines_3810.png]\r\n\r\nHere
    I changed the thickness of the outer arcs (middle version) and of the stems, too
    (right version). I don't like the outcome. It emphasizes the cleft down the middle
    of the dome, which is actually the most inaccurate part of the image. Actual telescope
    housings have a vertical slice-shaped window in the round dome but not in the
    straight tower part, since the dome and its window rotate with respect to the
    tower. Apart from that, I also simply prefer the visual impression of constant
    line strengths throughout the parallel parts of the image.\r\n\r\nFinally, I took
    Luma's suggestions of <strong>wide tracking</strong> and bringing back the <strong>horizontal
    rule</strong> for a ride:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rules_centered_5304.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rules_right_4283.png]\r\n\r\nI
    do like the ordering effect of the rule, especially when it's on top, but I also
    like the succinctness of the simple form without rule. In any case, I wanted to
    get the logo to a point where it can comfortably exist without a rule to support
    it, and I think that's been achieved.\r\n\r\nI also tried it on the side, but
    that doesn't quite work out:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rules_side_4328.png]\r\n\r\nSo
    I guess these are my new favorite arrangements...  note the use of the \"bold\"
    symbol in the third arrangement.  I think it meshes fairly well with the other
    ones.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arrangements_5910.png]"
  created: '2012-04-04 17:54:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Again: the \"A\" is way too narrow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-04 17:56:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes, give the A more space.\r\nYou might want to try making that horizontal
    line arc upwards, to give the tower some perspectival height. "
  created: '2012-04-04 18:06:31'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I do realize the <em>A</em> is uncomfortably narrow...  but I'm mainly aiming
    at creating a pleasing telescope dome than a pleasing lettering (let's face it,
    those letters are pretty ugly taken by themselves). If the compressed nature of
    the <em>A</em> renders the acronym harder to read, that actually plays in my favor.
    I want people to see the dome first, and then have the coin drop on the letters.\r\n\r\nBut
    I did try out the suggested remedies:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3d_6512.png]\r\n\r\nFirst,
    rotating the dome to face the viewer more directly didn't produce a very appealing
    result in my opinion. The overall morphology regressed to the state I started
    out with: Haphazard spacing between all stems, less volume, more line-art feeling.
    I also had to abandon the serifs, since the stems no longer formed regular groups
    that could be bundled together.\r\n\r\nHowever, curving the dividing line between
    the dome and the tower upwards to suggest perspective is very effective. Again,
    I have to go sans-serif, but the three-dimensionality of the mark now speaks for
    itself quite well.\r\n\r\nI like it a lot, but I'm still not quite 100% sure this
    is preferable over the dense serifed version. That older version had an \"expensive
    Swiss watchmaker\" feel to it, whereas the 3D version feels more like \"Woo! Check
    out this video of me snowboarding!\"\r\n\r\nHere are some shots of the 3D mark
    combined with the type. Again, I made a \"bold\" version of the logo for the smallest
    size.\r\n\r\nEDIT: It just occurred to me that the 3D version might have some
    undesirable phallic interpretations... is that a problem...?  /:P"
  created: '2012-04-05 00:17:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the righthand one is well-proportioned and bowing the horizontal*
    does help. But I'm not sure why the serifs had to go (although exactly where they
    should go never seemed fully resolved).\r\n\r\n* You might try the other direction
    too.\r\n\r\nAlso, make the \"I\" a bit thicker (inward) and shear the tip of the
    \"A\" slightly (very sharp points create rendering problems, and are generally
    uncomfortable).\r\n\r\nPhallic problem? Oxymoron.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-05 00:21:57'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "This is probably a terrible idea, but I'll mention it in the spirit of brainstorming.
    If you invert the colors you'll have a black sky, more like an observatory would
    be at night. I've made it a rectangle but you'd want to contain it within a better
    shape (rounded rectangle? circle? oval?)  Maybe add some stars?\r\n\r\nLike I
    said, probably a terrible idea; it's just something that popped into my head late
    at night.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/invert_3522.jpg]"
  created: '2012-04-05 06:31:47'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I think that idea might work in an oval.
  created: '2012-04-05 07:22:30'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Funny...  that's just what the previous logo artist did:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.astro.uva.nl/static/institute/images/API_logo_color.png\r\n\r\n(We
    actually have two telescope domes with staggered heights on our roof.)\r\n\r\nI
    suppose it could be viable to use the logo in such an environment. I've actually
    used the crude version of my logo in white on a darkish photographic background
    before, for a presentation. However, I would prefer if it could stand on its own
    without a painted background. A black-on-white mark would certainly work better
    on letterheads and the like. I'd want that to be the primary version of the logo,
    with perhaps a starry night \"badge\" version for specialized applications."
  created: '2012-04-05 11:44:14'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "The institute director looked a bit distressed when I showed him the new
    designs, since he already presented the initial version to the dean as the \"official
    logo\". I personally don't think it's a problem; it <em>is</em> the same concept
    after all, just better executed. Most people probably won't notice the change...
    \ ;o)  And it's not like it has been printed onto something expensive yet.\r\n\r\nThe
    director's main concern was the removal of the red color, so I reintroduced that.
    I'm not quite decided yet where to put it, though. I could either color some text
    or the rule:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/red_3568.png]\r\n\r\nI
    also implemented hrant's latest tweaks. I picked the 3D + serif version because
    it is the most pictorial, and as I've mentioned one of my main goals is to make
    people see the dome at first glance.  I also gave the finer print a bit of stroke
    since I don't have access to a heavier weight; I think it works fine.\r\n\r\nI
    don't intend to make the color a mandatory part of the logo, though.  I like it
    this way:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shaded_3918.png]\r\n\r\n<strong>@hrant:</strong>
    I don't think a downward curve would work, since that would imply that the dome
    is viewed from above, which then clashes with the straight-cut foundation. As
    it is now, the flat foundation and the curve paint a consistent 3D picture as
    seen from someone standing on the ground, eyes level with the foundation."
  created: '2012-04-05 14:15:34'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: What about making the horizontal rule start from the logo's left serif?
  created: '2012-04-05 16:08:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Are the serifs in the logo the same structure as the ones in the font? They
    should be.\r\n\r\nI would make the horizontal (bowed) line not vary in thickness.
    In fact if anything it should be (slightly) thicker towards the center.\r\n\r\nThe
    way color is usually handled in logos is either having two versions (which means
    people have to be careful to use the right one) or having one color version that
    degrades gracefully to monochrome.\r\n\r\nThe top of the \"A\" needs what's called
    modulation (thickness variance) to avoid looking too heavy. You might even trap
    it:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_trapping1.html\r\n\r\nBTW, make sure
    to give Typophile credit when talking to your colleagues!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-05 16:16:48'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I like your \"nighttime\" variation. The background gradation is a nice,
    subtle touch.\r\n\r\nAnd you'll probably need a reversed-colors version (white
    letters) anyway, for those situations where the logo needs to be printed on a
    dark background, or reversed out of a dark portion of a photo. \r\n\r\nHowever
    if you use the white logo over a dark photo, you probably wouldn't want that background
    gradation. But if the logo is printed on a plain black (or dark color) background,
    the gradation is a nice touch.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-05 17:18:48'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Carved some weight off the A's apex (which helped), returned the arched crossbar
    to uniform strength (which also helped), and remodeled the serifs after the ones
    from the Garamond (which I'm not sure I like). The problem being that Garamond
    has cupped stem ends, which look a bit weird when applied one-sided The resulting
    serifs look rather clumpy and draw more attention than they should have... \r\n\r\nTop
    is old, bottom is new.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serifs_4481.png]\r\n\r\nHowever,
    Riccardo's suggestion works fabulously well:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rule_4361.png]\r\n\r\nI
    do believe this is my new favorite design. I'll have to make the text red now
    if I want color, but that's a small sacrifice.  :)  \r\n\r\nThis will restrict
    the number of arrangements of text and mark I can make, but perhaps that's for
    the better anyway. I can easily merge the mark with the rule in the centered,
    graphics-dominated arrangement, and I guess I can use the serifs when the mark
    stands alone by itself."
  created: '2012-04-05 17:40:35'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Thanks for your feedback!\r\n\r\nI know hiring a pro is the way to go if
    the result should look professional.  But frankly, the level of typographic interest
    in the institute is very low, and it survived just fine without a logo at all
    for decades upon decades. When someone needed a logo for a poster a few years
    back, she painted one by hand in PowerPoint... and other people were happy to
    use that one as well; apparently no-one felt the need to improve on it. The effort
    and money spent on a <em>great</em> logo would just go to waste. So if you can
    help me come up with a <em>decent</em> logo, I believe that will be more than
    sufficient.  (And I'll admit that I have a certain ambition to reach that level
    by my own hand...)\r\n\r\nSo, first of all, I redesigned the overall shape of
    the mark. I think it looks a lot tidier now:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cleanup_4136.png]\r\nI
    find the regular spacing of the stems on the left side pleasing, and the compression
    of the lines on that side lend the mark some much-needed \"beef\". I gave the
    stems flat bottoms so they would suggest a flat foundation, which helps to solve
    my earlier \"Pac Man ghost\" problem.  I think the mark works fine now even without
    a line below to carry it.\r\n\r\nBrian suggested adding serifs to the mark; that
    concept threw me for a loop at first. But it turned out pretty easy to implement.
    First I added some Modern-style contrast, and then some actual serifs... and finally
    an i-dot, though frankly I'm not sure whether that's an improvement.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sans_4986.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serif_3692.png]\r\nOverall,
    I probably like the Modern-style but sans-serif mark (second from above). The
    serifs are interesting, but they come with a certain expensive-watchmaker feel.
    Well, maybe that's not the worst association for astronomy.\r\n\r\nI also tried
    the suggestion of grouping the text flush-left with a condensed font.  I suppose
    it works, though I prefer the previous designs.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/condensed_5837.png]\r\n\r\nOh,
    and I'm afraid there's nothing I can do about the name...  My initial designs
    also read <em>Anton Pannekoek Astronomical Institute</em>, but they corrected
    me...  the official name is Astronomical Institute \"Anton Pannekoek\".  The acronym
    API is for Anton Pannekoek Institute. I know, I know..."
  created: '2012-04-08 17:06:31'
- author:
    name: loltim
  body: "Hey I really like the modern font you have used in:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/condensed_5837.png\r\n\r\ncould
    you tell me what it is called I would be interested in using it.\r\n\r\nThe serif
    version looks a lot better though for this logo."
  created: '2012-05-20 10:06:34'
date: '2012-04-02 15:17:44'
node_type: forum
title: Logo for Astronomical Institute (Help!)

---
