---
author:
  name: Renaissance Man
  picture: 112023
body: "There are fonts that include R, I, B but no bold italic.\r\n\r\nThere are mega
  font families (e.g., 33 fonts) that include shadow, outline, light, semi-bold, medium,
  yada, yada, yada, but no bold italic.\r\n\r\nWhat's with that?"
comments:
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Where are you looking? Hardly know any typeface without a bold italic \u2026"
  created: '2012-04-06 13:24:16'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Because it is.
  created: '2012-04-06 13:24:31'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>Because it is.</em>\r\n\r\nDuh! I know that! But why? Or why should it
    be? Is it because some type designers think they know what's best for me?"
  created: '2012-04-06 13:39:24'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "No, it is because some type designers know what is best for their <em>typefaces</em>.
    In many cases, Bold Italic is just too much of a difference from the main face.
    Why emphasize text in Bold Italic when just a single level of emphasis (e.g.,
    Bold, Italic, small caps, underlining, letterspacing, switching to a different
    typeface, etc.) would be enough?\r\n\r\nThere are plenty of typefaces that have
    Bold Italics. If you want to use a Bold Italic, pick a typeface family that offers
    it. I don\u2019t see why is should be a requirement, just because it is so commonplace."
  created: '2012-04-06 13:55:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I meant that bold italic is a bastard stepchild in itself, historically and
    design-wise, as Dan explains.
  created: '2012-04-06 14:06:16'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Sumner Stone chose to omit an accompanying Italic for some of his Bolds (or
    Semibolds), see <a href="http://www.stonetypefoundry.com/cyclesoverview.html">Cycles</a>,
    <a href="http://www.stonetypefoundry.com/arepooverview.html">Arepo</a>, <a href="http://www.stonetypefoundry.com/sfploverview.html">SFPL</a>.
  created: '2012-04-06 14:37:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And his Silica doesn't even have <em>any</em> Italic! Bravo.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-06 14:40:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because it's the least useful of the four.\r\n\r\nBut excluding it has become
    very old-fashioned. The only recent typeface that I remember not having a B-I
    (at least when first launched) is Whitman.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-06 14:41:19'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Purists consider italics and roman to be different species\u2026 I find mixing
    them problematic too and prefer slanted forms in longer texts (and for all I care
    designers may call these italics)."
  created: '2012-04-06 14:55:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do you mean like this?\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/dev/nour-latin.gif\r\nI
    would <em>love</em> to see Harrier used for an entire book one day.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-06 15:02:31'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "To clarify: slanted instead of italic\u2026 for distant matter in roman."
  created: '2012-04-06 16:04:13'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'A previous discussion on the same topic: http://typophile.com/node/8029'
  created: '2012-04-06 16:25:50'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The four core weights \u2014 Regular, Italic, Bold & Bold Italic \u2014 became
    a \u201Cstandard\u201D with MS Office, no? They had the b and the i and clicking
    both triggered the bi, so perhaps it is just plain lazyness? If you need the bi,
    you\u2019re probably designing something so complex those four \u201Ccore\u201D
    styles wont do anyway. A medium/semibold, or a smaller optical size is much more
    useful."
  created: '2012-04-06 18:49:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Why emphasize text in Bold Italic when just a single level of
    emphasis (e.g., Bold, Italic, small caps, underlining, letterspacing, switching
    to a different typeface, etc.) would be enough?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOne use-case
    where emphasis-within-emphasis comes particularly in handy is when titles appear
    in bold (say, a section heading named \"<strong>Summer Blockbusters from <em>Jaws</em>
    to <em>Independence Day</em></strong>\"). "
  created: '2012-04-06 19:24:21'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<strong><em>prefer slanted forms in longer texts (and for all I care designers
    may call these italics).</strong></em>  Oops, is this bold italic?\r\n\r\nIf designers
    want to eschew true cursive italic in favor of slanted Roman, why charge the same
    price for an oblique as for the Roman, when the difference is a few mouse clicks?
    Why shouldn't I just buy Roman and let my program create an oblique?\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Craig, for the example. Apparently some folks need to know why there is a need
    for BI, although I wouldn't have thought so on Typophile."
  created: '2012-04-06 21:52:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A good slanted-Roman is never merely obliqued, not even in a sans.\r\n\r\nAnd
    you should pay <em>more</em> for a slanted-Roman because it does a better job.
    Just like you pay more for a designer who uses two fonts instead of five on a
    job.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-06 22:00:42'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Delightful reply, Hrant.\r\n\r\nWould that this were always so: <em>A good
    slanted-Roman is never merely obliqued, not even in a sans.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess
    the key word is \"good.\" When I see a merely obliqued Roman, I think \"slothful.\"\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-06 22:18:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Same here. It's where Morison fell victim to his own dogma (and dragged a
    couple of otherwise good designers down with him).\r\n\r\nBut making a traditional
    italic could also be seen as slothful, ideologically. Just because something takes
    a lot of time doesn't make it good.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-06 22:22:15'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>Just because something takes a lot of time doesn't make it good.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    true\u2014and it applies to everything from fonts to writing to music to parenting.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    just because something is good doesn't mean that it doesn't take a lot of time.</em>
    Hat tip to type designers who take the time to make type good."
  created: '2012-04-06 23:24:32'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "I bought the bold italic font of a family just the other day, for the reason
    Craig Eliason described. But I didn\u2019t buy it months ago, when I only got
    the regular, italic, and bold fonts.\r\n\r\nI didn't need it until I needed it."
  created: '2012-04-07 01:39:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I usually include it,  but sometimes it's just too much effort to draw. (Figgins
    Sans).
  created: '2012-04-07 08:24:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Historically, if you go 'way back, there was just one style of type in a
    given document. That style might have been blackletter, or it might have been
    Roman.\r\n\r\nI've seen printed books from the 20th Century (or maybe the 19th)
    that actually used blackletter for emphasis in a predominantly Roman text.\r\n\r\nItalics,
    when they first came along, thanks to Aldus Manutilus, were a way to print books
    more economically.\r\n\r\nEventually, though, the use of italics for emphasis
    (as opposed to letterspacing for emphasis, a once-common practice) did become
    standardized.\r\n\r\nBoldface came along <em>much</em> later. Using blackletter,
    or a different Roman typeface with a heavier weight, for emphasis or headings
    preceded the design of bold weights of a given typeface.\r\n\r\nA very few typefaces
    later had bold italics designed for them, but this was generally regarded as a
    novelty. The frequent use of different levels of emphasis - italics, bold, small
    capitals - is generally deprecated, as good taste in typography has been generally
    regarded as that which is understated.\r\n\r\nVictorian posters, of course, are
    the extreme example of the opposite of this - and the needs of advertisers are
    one major reason why a few typefaces had a bold italic designed for them."
  created: '2012-04-07 17:14:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Italics, when they first came along, thanks to Aldus Manutilus, were a
    way to print books more economically.\r\n\r\nAFAIK this \"classical\" opinion
    has been debunked. I used to repeat that myself, but if you think about it it
    never made any sense to begin with (except for something like poetry).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-07 17:18:09'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Not more economically, but to imitate a much admired scribing style of the
    time. (At least that\u2019s what my memory is from what I was taught and have
    read.)"
  created: '2012-04-07 18:45:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The Aldine pocket books mimic the format and style of the informal manuscript
    books of the humanist scholars, who were interested in copying a text quickly
    in a portable format rather than producing prestige volumes. These books were
    written in the informal, cursive style, and hence Aldus' pocket editions followed
    suit.
  created: '2012-04-07 19:10:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: But that doesn't mean they weren't also economical, because it is the nature
    of a strong design to satisfy multiple needs and/or constraints.
  created: '2012-04-07 19:59:19'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "When choosing a workhorse typeface for a magazine, I regard the lack of a
    bold(er) italic as a serious omission. There are too many instances where a bolder
    weight (not always the \"bold,\" if a medium/semibold is available) is used for
    text (sidebars, captions, tables, etc.) and requires an italic counterpart.\r\n\r\nIt
    sometimes seems as if Typophile is populated solely by book designers and that
    the only thing humans read are long, immersive texts. :)"
  created: '2012-04-07 20:24:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Narrow and/or small-on-body fonts (slant or no) save space in proportion
    to the infrequence of paragraph breaks; the more frequent the paragraph breaks
    the more you'll save more space by instead using a large-on-body font at a smaller
    size (which guarantees vertical space savings no matter the breaks). In fact,
    all else being equal large-on-body fonts are more economical (except for poetry
    where long lines that <em>have</em> to break just into a second line make the
    results wasteful, but most of all ungainly).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-07 20:27:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\nYes, but we can't condemn Aldus Manutilus for not having access
    to the glowing testimonials of users of Corona."
  created: '2012-04-07 22:35:13'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: Manutius doesn't have an l in it.
  created: '2012-04-08 03:15:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Manutius and Manutilus were two different people, the later being a crazy
    submarine typographer of the 19th century.\r\n\r\n@dan \"No, it is because some
    type designers know what is best for their typefaces\"\r\n\r\nThis is reasoning
    for both solutions. If I don't supply a BI I am saying to the user not to use
    one, if I do supply one I'm trying to make sure the computer doesn't supply it.\r\n\r\nBack
    at the original question, bold italic was something that was made in many display
    faces. Text bold italics were not common in the Linotype library when I arrived
    in 1978, but by 1986, all families intended for use in text and display use required
    a BI\r\n\r\nWhat happened was, i think three things;\r\nITC was producing large,
    for the time, families of matching roman and italic for each weight. Linotype
    and maybe others were digitally standardizing on 12 pt masters and at the same
    time expanding families like Caledonia, Century and Aster w/Ikarus, and while
    doing so added BI to keep up.\r\n\r\nWYSIWYG word processors were starting to
    catch on that used matching bitmaps for printer and screen fonts. Hand edited
    bitmaps had the ability to be boldened and slanted without damage being apparent
    to your average word processor developer. Software logic says R, RI and B should
    always make BI possible, so font developers were compelled to either see computer
    generated BI, or supply it.\r\n\r\nSo when typesetting and word processing merged
    into desktop publishing, it placed the typographically mindful and mindless on
    the same platform while\_converting to digital outlines, and so the BI became\_expected.\r\n\r\nSame
    with fonts don't have I, B or BI today, like Brush Script... and look what happens.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-08 14:34:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Further to David\u2019s exegesis: a big impetus to the concept of large families
    came about through the technological ability to photographically modify typositor
    fonts and settings. \u201CModding\u201D.\r\n\r\nHeadliners International, for
    instance, had in the 1970s and 80s small-x height \u201CNeo-Mini- \u201D versions
    of all the classic typefaces, including even Gill Sans, in multiple weights, roman
    and italic (for use in heads, Marc!)\r\n\r\nBoth slanting and bolding could be
    done photographically (outlines and shadows too); the results weren\u2019t perfect,
    but the amount of manual clean-up work required was substantially less than drawing
    from scratch.\r\n\r\nThe weight of a typositor setting could be varied during
    or after the setting process, and the same techniques used in font production.\r\n\r\nIn
    the 1960s and 1970s, high-end typesetters provided hand lettering and typositor-set
    headlines, as well as body-text galleys. Often a headline setting would be modded
    and tweaked by lettering artists to the extent that it became a hybrid beast.
    Les Usherwood ran one such shop in Toronto, Typsettra, and used the technology
    and talent at his disposal to design and produce many different fonts based on
    the same modded body, both as stylistic variants (different serif treatments)
    and as family extensions.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-08 21:34:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ ren man\r\nSpeaking as a bastard stepchild myself, I resent your tone."
  created: '2012-04-08 23:25:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "FWIW, in the heyday of photo-lettering, type designers merely designed the
    characters themselves; the matters of metrics and kerning were handled by the
    Typositor/compositor operator. \r\n\r\nOutlines  were created using a film positive,
    a film negative and, usually, an orbital cam contraption; adding shadows required
    another positive and negative and a bit of creative film stripping. Now those
    methods have gone the way of the horse and buggy\u2026well, except in Amish country."
  created: '2012-04-08 23:45:20'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Am I wrong in remembering that the Linotype could only contain four weights
    on the machine. You got Roman, Italic, Bold and Small Caps. BI was not part of
    the mix. Or is that just on certain magazines?
  created: '2012-04-09 15:31:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Far from gone, I think all the treatments and mods  referred to above, in
    addition to more... (So that's oblique, bold, underscore, strikethrough overscore,
    outline, shadow, horizontal scale, skew, and the combinatorial hoodlum fonts that
    result), have been converted from horse and buggy or dark smokey room activities,
    to icons in many apps... including some being web-standardized and enabled in
    some browsers.\r\n\r\nWhat happens next in type treatments on the web should be
    interesting."
  created: '2012-04-09 16:38:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There just is not one answer.  In the area of possible need, there are variances
    between, book, magazine, brochure, advertising, web, etc.., for a given face.
    \ This gets further compounded by a given users perception of what they need vs.
    what it costs to buy.  Using the same logic, a type designer might ask himself
    if there would be enough more sales just because the BI was included to more than
    offset the time and effort to make a BI. Sometimes a type designer might assume
    that a BI is not worth doing for a given face.  They may well be wrong by some
    counts but that was there perception at the time.\r\nI you need a BI in a face
    that does not have one, contact the foundry and ask about it. They may just need
    a few nudges in that direction to produce that variation.  Otherwise, you may
    need to choose another face for the job.  I might also say that making a decent
    BI when a family has  only a bold roman and a regular italic is not just a few
    quick mouse clicks as someone implied above.  All good things require work.\r\nWhen
    you need it, you need it.  That does not mean a type designer may think the time
    and effort was worth it at the moment of release.  They may change their mind
    if they get asked often enough."
  created: '2012-04-09 17:49:37'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>Am I wrong in remembering that the Linotype could only contain
    four weights on the machine. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nDon \u2014 Depends upon the
    model of the machine and how many simultaneous magazines it could accommodate.
    Lino mats were duplexed \u2014 i.e., two styles on one mat. So each magazine would
    carry two styles together (which were, technically speaking, a single font).\r\n\r\nUsually
    the pairings were typical Roman with Italic or Roman with Bold. \r\n\r\nSmall
    caps were not provided as a separate font/style. Those faces that sported small
    caps were usually targeted at book work and were provided in fonts of Roman with
    Italic and Small Caps. I don\u2019t know offhand exactly what the duplexing scheme
    was (and there may have been a few different arrangements).\r\n\r\nIf there was
    a Bold Italic, it would be offered with the Bold. But there were not a lot of
    those in the library.\r\n\r\nAnd you could also get certain pairings across families
    (usually, two romans) \u2014 so, for instance, Excelsior with Memphis Bold\_\u2014\_for
    jobbing work.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-09 20:43:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "When Scala was \uFB01rst published (on \uFB02oppy, c.1990), it had Regular,
    Italic, Bold, and Capitals fonts.\r\nI thought it was very cool that it had small
    caps and alternate figures but not Bold Italic, and this de\uFB01nitely positioned
    it, in my mind, as being a typeface for serious typographers.\r\n\r\nAt the time
    I was doing editorial design and generally used sans serif for sidebars, so the
    lack of a Bold Italic was not an issue.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-09 23:14:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Am I right in remembering some phototype technology with four style/weight
    fonts on a single film strip or wheel?
  created: '2012-04-09 23:20:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "AFAIK they crammed as much as possible on single disks, and that's what killed
    optical masters.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-09 23:45:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@kentlew:\r\n<cite>I don\u2019t know offhand exactly what the duplexing scheme
    was (and there may have been a few different arrangements).</cite>\r\n\r\nTypically,
    on a Linotype machine, the small capitals were duplexed with the digits and other
    special symbols like the at sign and the dollar sign. Unlike bold and italics,
    there was no way to make them the same size as a different weight of letter."
  created: '2012-04-10 18:42:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Yes, exactly. I just don\u2019t recall offhand which small-cap letters were
    duplexed with which digits and symbols. There are charts of such things in my
    library. I just haven\u2019t bothered to look them up. And I believe that there
    may have been multiple schemes in different circumstances (but I could be remembering
    wrong on this count)."
  created: '2012-04-10 19:13:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Before the issue arose of computers automatically bolding or slanting font
    styles for which bold, italic, or bold italic were not provided arose, indeed,
    the selection of typefaces with a bold italic was small.\r\n\r\nOne source - perhaps
    biased - would be the set of fonts offered for the IBM Selectric Composer.\r\n\r\nHaving
    Medium and Italic:\r\n\r\nPyramid\r\n\r\nHaving Medium, Italic, and Bold:\r\n\r\nAldine
    Roman\r\nBaskerville\r\nBodoni\r\nCentury\r\nTheme\r\n\r\nHaving Bold Italic as
    well:\r\n\r\nJournal Roman\r\nPress Roman\r\n\r\nAnd then there was Univers, which
    did not have a bold italic, but which did have condensed and light versions."
  created: '2012-04-24 03:27:58'
date: '2012-04-06 13:09:24'
title: Why is Bold Italic a bastard stepchild?

---
