---
author:
  name: twardoch
  picture: 110427
body: "Hello everyone, \r\n\r\nfor research & experiment purposes, I\u2019m looking
  for a list of 60-100 digital fonts for the Latin alphabet (upright and italics,
  primarily serifs and sanserifs or various kinds), as well of 3-4 digital fonts for
  each of the major non-Latin scripts, which you would consider extremely/exceptionally
  well spaced and kerned. \r\n\r\nI\u2019d like to exclude from that list all the
  digitizations made of typefaces that were designed on a unit-based system which
  made it necessary to make compromises. In other words, I\u2019m looking for fonts
  designed with \u201Chigh UPM resolution\u201D in mind. \r\n\r\nWe\u2019re experimenting
  with various alternatives to the current spacing and kerning model, and would like
  to verify those models we\u2019re prototyping with existing data (i.e. fonts) of
  high visual quality. \r\n\r\nPlease list font names preferably by their family and
  style name, plus foundry name. Please give more details regarding the format, version,
  source vendor or release year etc. if there is a possibility of confusion. \r\n\r\nMany
  thanks in advance,\r\nAdam"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{To Follow}'
  children:
  - author:
      name: twardoch
      picture: 110427
    body: "Don\u2019t say {To Follow} but give me your suggestions instead! ;)"
    created: '2012-04-10 22:30:42'
  created: '2012-04-10 21:37:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Give me a bit of time. I just didn't want to miss following this thread!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-10 23:35:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t think this is the kind of thing you can get an ad hoc answer
    to.\r\nIf I were to address this question seriously, it would take quite a bit
    of research.\r\nCertainly I could trot out my favorites, but that would exclude
    faces I don\u2019t like which I might nonetheless consider well spaced, if I were
    to consider them at all."
  created: '2012-04-11 06:24:59'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<ul>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://ilovetypography.com/2011/10/05/the-making-of-ff-tundra/\r\n\">FF
    Tundra</a></li>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://ilovetypography.com/2009/12/15/font-design-vesper-typeface-devanagari/\">Vesper</a></li>\r\n</ul>\r\nAccording
    to the making of for both, the designer went to great pains to space them well.
    There is also <a href=\"http://diacritics.typo.cz/index.php?id=85\">an article</a>
    on the Diacritics Project that goes into detail about common spacing/kerning ailments.
    I also think <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/garamond-premier/\">Garamond
    Premier</a> might have very good spacing, too. I seem to remember someone on Typophile
    mentioning this.\r\n\r\nThere must be at least a few excellently spaced and kerned
    types. I think depending on your era that meant a different thing, though.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I <em>am</em> curious as to what these alternative methods are. :)"
  created: '2012-04-11 14:26:38'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "My personal opinion: PMNCaecilia is a very well behaved font family. I also
    am a fan of Typotheque fonts, eg Brioni, Greta, etc, that look well spaced and
    well kerned to me (but I am not a font designer, just a user\u2026).\r\nThinking
    about it, National is great too. : )"
  created: '2012-04-11 14:45:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hi Adam. I think there is a problem is talking only about spacing and kerning,
    and not about character design. Also there are issues on what kind of compromises
    you are going to call 'good.' \r\n\r\nIn my own experience, spacing the lower
    case of my Williams Caslon Text was not that tough, because I think I got the
    character widths and stroke weights (these interact) right. Of course I had a
    lot of help from Caslon and the models he was influenced by. When it came to the
    italic, I had a lot more problems. I widened and straightened up Caslon's italic,
    so it really became a different animal. Initially I had the hook terminals at
    \ the baseline kicking out beyond the shoulders. And I just couldn't get the design
    to space and look good. The rhythm was never right. When I pulled the hooks back
    under the shoulder, then things started to work. But even in the end the italic
    seemed to need more kerning than the roman. This may have to do with the varying
    slopes of characters in a true old style italic. \r\n\r\nI say all this because
    I think the key issue is what rhythm is readable, and works. Then good character
    design and spacing and kerning all follow from this. \r\n\r\nAlso you have compromises
    and design philosophy issues for which there is not necessarily one right answer.
    A prime consideration is always to get the white space between letters visually
    even. A sometimes competing consideration is not to have parts of letters touching,
    or close to touching, as that can be distracting. For example, you might want
    to overlap KA, and RA, letting them touch as the lesser of evils. But you might
    want to modify the design of the K and R and A also, so that there is a small
    gap, without compromising too much on visual evenness. \r\n\r\nYou also have the
    need to have the letter spacing in proportion to the counters. Here there are
    problems involving the caps that again don't necessarily have one best solution.
    When you kern caps to lower case, you have the question of what the space between
    the cap and the lower case letters should relate to, the counters of the caps
    and or of the lower case. If they relate to the caps, then you have the caps standing
    off a bit from the rest of the word. If the space relates to the lower case, then
    you have a more abrupt change in color between the cap and lower case parts of
    the word. You can also make the caps smaller to ameliorate this problem, but then
    you face the question of whether caps should be clearly differentiated in color
    to serve as their signaling function as caps. So I think there is a fair amount
    of latitude involved in these decisions involving caps and lower case. \r\n\r\nOn
    kerning the caps to one another, I think you have the problem that the inherent
    shape of caps mean that you get a wide gap in combinations like KA RA LA, etc.
    The traditional way to deal with this is to space caps out more widely, and that
    can work. But now people usually want tighter spacing in caps, so it fits into
    running text, and you then are forced to make more compromises about overlaps
    and touching. And that means when you have a title, especially one pretty big,
    all digital fonts that I have worked with need to re-kerned to work really well.
    That's because when it's bigger you may want to change the spacing, and then either
    because of that or the original compromises the kerning doesn't work so well any
    more. \r\n\r\nAll that being said, I personally looked to Slimbach as my model
    of excellent craftsmanship on spacing and kerning. I set the same words in my
    font and his Minion and Adobe Garamond, and if mine didn't work as well as his,
    it was a sign I'd screwed up. Also, alongside general admiration for his craftsmanship,
    I had a couple disagreements with his spacing and kerning philosophy. I felt his
    spacing overall tended to be a hair too tight for text sizes, and his kerning
    of quotation marks, especially in Minion, was so tight as to be distracting, and
    so a blunder.\r\n\r\nDoing the exercise you are talking about, I would test different
    rules for kerning against a number of faces of the best craftsmen working today.
    That would include in addition to Slimbach, certainly 'senior masters' such as
    Matthew Carter, Sumner Stone, Gerard Unger, Bram de Does, Adrian Frutiger (for
    sans only) and Hermann Zapf. There are many younger than these who are also excellent
    craftsmen, including Berlow, Schwartz, Hoefler, Frere-Jones, De Groot, and quite
    a few more. I would also include classic text faces such as Times New Roman and
    Sabon.  \r\n\r\nFinally, I hope Charles Ellertson chimes in. His work as a compositor
    has involved re-kerning existing typefaces so that they set better, so his critique
    of some of the best work would be interesting. \r\n   \r\n\r\n   \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2012-04-11 15:39:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>I would also include classic text faces such as Times New Roman
    and Sabon. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nI think Sabon falls outside Adam\u2019s original
    criteria. The original design, as you know, was constrained by the goal to set
    exactly the same on both Monotype and Linotype, and so it was unitized <em>and</em>
    had little or no kerning. \r\n\r\nSabon was an excellent solution to a knotty
    challenge and has always set surprisingly well given the circumstances. But I
    suspect it would not be an apt exemplar for the work Adam & team are doing."
  created: '2012-04-11 15:58:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Oh, I didn't mention Kent's Whitman, which I also used as a model for comparison,
    and has a lovely evenness. \r\n\r\nKent, I should have explained that I know that
    Sabon was unitized. But I think that because it was a success in those constraints,
    it shows how rhythm is the main thing, and the way character widths (of the black)
    and spacing works in Sabon is worth looking at.  "
  created: '2012-04-11 16:15:26'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Heh, I was referencing Miller Text and Minion* as my exemplars while fitting
    Whitman.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t disagree about the success of Sabon. I\u2019m just
    taking Adam at his word that unitized designs are not useful for what he\u2019s
    trying to do. My understanding is that he\u2019s intending to run some designs
    through his team\u2019s new system and compare how closely the results might replicate
    the originals, and that, for whatever reason, unitized designs would not provide
    a helpful comparison.\r\n\r\n* (the original Postscript Type 1 version)"
  created: '2012-04-11 17:36:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Perhaps Sabon Next is spaced well?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-11 17:50:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Compare Goudy\u2019s neo-Renaissance faces with those of Slimbach.\r\nAll
    are well-spaced, although to quite different principles.\r\nI doubt Goudy Old
    Style (above) and Minion Pro (below) would look as good with each other\u2019s
    spacing method. Even if they did, they wouldn\u2019t look like themselves. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spacing_4068.png]\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-11 18:07:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Goudy's \"oo\" is too tight; Minion's \"vv\" might need a positive kern,
    or a contextual alt (like Nina did in Ernestine). Speaking of which: Adam, how
    does the use of alts to help spacing fit in to your project?\r\n\r\nBTW Goudy
    wasn't good at spacing; I was once commissioned to respace Deepdene (although
    I guess it's possible the bad spacing in that case was the fault of the person
    who digitized it).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-11 18:10:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Two different cuts of Futura:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Futuras_3708.png]"
  created: '2012-04-11 18:16:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The sidebearings of Goudy\u2019s oldstyles are taken from Jenson; he revived
    Jenson\u2019s \u201Clost\u201D method <em>in toto</em>\u2014serif construction
    and sidebearings\u2014which was predicated on solid \uFB01tting.\r\n\r\nYes, I
    came across that ignorant digitization of Deepdene too."
  created: '2012-04-11 18:22:56'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I suspect that Goudy's spacing was influenced by Goudy's medium: cast metal
    type. Yes, the \u201Coo\u201D is spaced too tightly\u2014or, rather not spaced
    at all\u2014yet the o fits nicely with both the l and the v without kerning."
  created: '2012-04-11 18:50:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me as a rule round-rounds need a positive kern, otherwise everything goes
    out of whack.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-11 18:52:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The Goudy spacing shown in Nick\u2019s image is typical of Monotype fitting,
    and of the era in general. There has been a shift in taste/philosophy/understanding
    \u2014 whatever you want to call it \u2014 between then and now.\r\n\r\nRecently,
    I have been studying a few Monotype and Linotype settings in books I admire, rather
    closely, and I\u2019m beginning to wonder if part of the <em>je ne sais quoi</em>
    of that period, in addition to the typically cited letterpress vagaries, is also
    the matter of a different approach to fitting."
  created: '2012-04-11 19:20:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Odd... \"To me as a rule round-rounds need a positive kern, otherwise everything
    goes out of whack.\"\r\n\r\n523 fonts and counting, not one has an oo kern pair,
    and no one has gone out of whack. "
  created: '2012-04-11 20:07:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "IIRC (which I admit happens less and less these days) I got the idea from
    Matthew Carter.\r\n\r\nBTW Adam, although this is not a <em>bad</em> place to
    pursue this, I think you will get better results on a forum with a greater number
    of type <em>users</em> as opposed to designers... This isn't simply because many
    type designers don't actually use fonts enough, but also because designers necessarily
    form their own ideas of how it should be done (ideas that often arise out of expediency
    as much as a desire for quality) and this tends to obscure objective evaluation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-11 20:20:05'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>523 fonts and counting, not one has an oo kern pair, and no one has gone
    out of whack.</em>\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I'm willing to wager a beer or two
    that a fair number of them have <strong>lo</strong> and <strong>ov</strong> kerning
    pairs..."
  created: '2012-04-11 20:32:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, \"out of whack\" was not strictly accurate. The reason it makes sense
    (to me) is that it reduces the need to fix a bigger mess on the negative end.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-11 20:36:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Thank you for your responses so far. Certainly, I did not expect an answer
    \"out of a hat\", although I believe that some people already have their favorites
    that they \"carry around with them\", and could perhaps share the insight. \r\n\r\nI
    think Typophile is the one place on the net where the most educated people working
    with type meet (type designers, but also critics, reviewers, users etc.). Many
    younger type designers have looked at existing typefaces and studied them, so
    perhaps they might tune in. \r\n\r\nIndeed, I'd prefer to see newer typefaces
    in the list rather than the ones which have been \"compromised\" by the unit system.
    They may be very good designs, but with a coarse unit system it's hard to retroactively
    guess whether some decision was an \"ideal\" choice of a \"hard-worked compromise\".
    This is why I'd prefer to see designs that have been made without those constraints.
    (This is nicely illustrated on http://www.fontbureau.com/nhg/features/ where the
    advance widths of the old digital Helvetica and of Neue Haas Grotesk are compared).
    \r\n\r\nIn certainly do intend to take an \"auteur sample\", by picking some faces
    designed by type designers I know and trust (both older and younger generation)
    and see whether I can find some patterns there that could be applied to the methods
    we're researching. I do have some selection of candidates of my own, so this thread
    is intended mostly to broaden my own perspective rather than needing to serve
    as the only source for information. \r\n\r\nMany thanks, and I appreciate your
    opinions coming! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-04-11 21:29:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>IIRC (which I admit happens less and less these days) I got the
    idea from Matthew Carter.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHmm. I\u2019ve spent a bit of time
    inside several of Carter\u2019s fonts, and not one of them, that I can recall,
    has any positive round-round kerns.\r\n\r\nI believe what you\u2019re describing
    was a Berthold approach."
  created: '2012-04-11 21:35:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Adam \u2014 I think I misunderstood your request then as paraphrased above.
    So, you\u2019re examining exemplars to deduce potential patterns?\r\n\r\nTo echo
    someone (I think it was Bill), I find both Slimbach\u2019s and Carter\u2019s work,
    in general, to be very well spaced and kerned. What\u2019s even more interesting,
    in this context, is that they both have very different approaches to achieving
    their results. So, you might find a comparison instructive.\r\n\r\nBut I suspect
    these are both already on your list.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-04-11 21:40:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Kent, could you characterize generally the differences you have found between
    Slimbach's and Carter's approaches?
  created: '2012-04-11 21:57:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Carter\u2019s approach to fitting is more or less what I would consider traditional,
    the sort of approach that underlies Tracy\u2019s elementary account in <cite>Letters
    of Credit</cite>. And Carter\u2019s approach to kerning is fairly light-handed.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    been a while since I delved into Slimbach\u2019s work, but his approach seemed
    to rely more on micro-kerning. In the original Minion there were lots of single-digit
    kerns \u2014 lots of \xB12 or 3 units, even. And there were lots of unexpected
    pairs. \r\n\r\nThe re-release of Minion Pro was refitted from the original; but
    looking just now at the Regular, for instance \u2014 if you take /o/ as the first
    member and pair it with each lowercase letter, you\u2019ll find that there are
    kern pairs for 24 out of the 26, both positive and negative. That\u2019s a very
    different approach.\r\n\r\nSo, perhaps we have to paraphrase Duke Ellington: \u201CIf
    it <em>looks</em> good, it <em>is</em> good.\u201D "
  created: '2012-04-12 13:44:53'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: Speaking of a massively-kerned typeface, it seems that Silica, by Sumner Stone,
    went through "six thousand different character combinations of the font before
    releasing it to the public" (info taken from a mid-Nineties source). I have the
    typeface and surely it is nicely kerned.
  created: '2012-04-12 14:13:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, that's interesting. I just did the same exercise on my Caslon and
    found 7 kerns following 'o' out of the 26, mainly the diagonals, with none for
    the oo. I did do some kerns of \xB12 or 3 also, I guess influenced by Slimbach,
    even though I was going for a more open look than his. I guess it would be interesting
    to see how much rounding to the nearest 5 changes the look... "
  created: '2012-04-12 14:34:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "@HP \"BTW, \"out of whack\" was not strictly accurate. The reason it makes
    sense (to me) is that it reduces the need to fix a bigger mess on the negative
    end.\"\r\n\r\nThat's good! It's evolved from a rule, to just making sense in less
    than a topic. What's best about this change is that you were condemning the spacing
    of nearly all per-digital types to out of whackness, which is a pretty big condemnation,
    even for you. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 14:35:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, what are Slimbach's positive kerns on the \"o\"?\r\n\r\nDavid, don't
    you think metal types would have been better spaced if they had kerning (I mean
    in the sense we use it now)? This is <em>way</em> before any round-round discussion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 14:38:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "You don\u2019t have a copy of Minion Pro, Hrant? Comes bundled with most
    Adobe software. I know you\u2019re not a \u201Cuser,\u201D but don\u2019t you
    have software for testing?\r\n\r\nIf not, I\u2019ll go look it up later. Or someone
    else can. Just set the string in InDesign and read out the values in parentheses."
  created: '2012-04-12 15:53:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, I just checked Slimbach's Adobe Garamond on the kerns between 'o'
    and a following lower case letter. Unlike Minion (the positive oo kern is 9 units),
    he kerns very lightly. The only kerns following 'o' are with the diagonal characters\u2014vwxy.
    No kerning on oo. \r\n\r\nI think this shows something that is important for Adam's
    investigation. Slimbach evidently wanted to do something different with Minion:
    to produce using maximum kerning a very economical typeface. The design with the
    narrow characters and large x-height also has the same goal.\r\n\r\nSo here we
    have the same designer following a different philosophy, and doing a different
    kind of kerning. To me Minion and Adobe Garamond succeed in different ways, with
    different goals. So any 'auto' kerning is going to have to have latitude to be
    most useful for designers.\r\n\r\nBy the way, whether Minion's solutions are the
    best way to be economical is another issue. I am biased, but to me a smaller size
    of Williams Caslon Text is a more comfortable read in the same space, partly because
    the tight, darker and large x-height Minion calls for more leading. Being a bit
    wider and looser and lighter, in other words, helps reading comfort more than
    size.    "
  created: '2012-04-12 16:06:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, I should have checked myself, sorry. I do have InDesign (won it in
    Thomas's contest :-).\r\n\r\nDavid, would you say Slimbach is wrong in positively
    kerning \"oo\"?\r\n\r\nBTW, Adobe Garamond is older than Adobe Minion. So I would
    see the addition of an \"oo\" kern as part of a gradual improvement in Slimbach's
    craft.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 16:40:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The only problem I have with looking at Robert Slimbach\u2019s more recent
    work is that, with such massive character sets, I know there are some bugs and
    omissions in the font, and also some compromises made because of the technical
    limitations of the OpenType font format (the way classes are set up etc.). \r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    discovered some problems myself there, and even though I know how much effort
    goes into the design and production process at Adobe, with such ambitious efforts,
    I think some mistakes are inevitable. \r\n\r\nBut still, the amount of the bugs
    is generally a tiny fraction of the entire number of combinations, so still, I
    do include some of his fonts among my favorites for the purpose of my evaluation.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 19:01:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>So I would see the addition of an \"oo\" kern as part of a gradual improvement
    in Slimbach's craft.</em>\r\n\r\nI would see it also as changing taste.\r\nWhether
    the direction taken is the result of the person maturing, or the tenor of the
    times, is hard to say.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve tried \u201C\u2026various alternatives
    to the current spacing and kerning model\u2026\u201D in several of my types, most
    of which could be considered Critical Design.\r\n\r\nI put positive kerns on the
    rounds of Figgins Sans, partly so that it would set tight in tracked-in headlines,
    without collisions. The normal (\u201Ctext\u201D) fit is derived from doing the
    spacing with a tight fit, for headlines, as it were, then just opening up the
    metrics by adding space consistently to all sidebearings.\r\n\r\nIn Richler I
    put massively wide sidebearings on the rounds, on the principle that the face
    is square and high contrast, and the vertical rounds are almost like straight
    stems. This looks a bit silly-travesty at large sizes, but works well in body.\r\n\r\nIn
    Preface, I employed space-hogging glyph shapes from outside the subtly spaced
    foundry type tradition, to open up the colour of text.\r\n\r\nIn Goodchild and
    Nicholas, like Goudy I went back to try and emulate Jenson\u2019s clockwork \uFB01tting,
    in the interplay of glyph form, detail and spacing.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 19:47:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, can you explain what you mean by \"Jenson's clockwork Fitting\"?\r\n\r\nIf
    anyone has Garamond Premier, I'd be interested whether Slimbach changed his kerning
    philosophy for that, compared to Garamond. "
  created: '2012-04-12 19:57:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, I think if you restrict the character set you're observing in fonts
    that you suspect might suffer from such \"overload\" (like looking only at the
    basic alphabetics) you could feel much more confident; otherwise you'd be excluding
    some of the best stuff out there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 20:10:30'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I believe Kris Sowersby's work is very nicely spaced. The spacing in Newzald
    and National is a point of reference for me, as is Commercial Type's Guardian
    Text. \r\n\r\nI'm often tempted to kern oo, and other round-round pairs, but have
    avoided the temptation so far, instead aiming to get nice spacing with as little
    kerning as possible. We'll see how that works out."
  created: '2012-04-12 20:11:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, clockwork:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_4443.jpg]"
  created: '2012-04-12 20:15:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, I just checked Garamond Premier: \"oo\" (as well as \"oc\", \"od\",
    \"oe\" and \"oq\") is at +9. Same as in Minion... And \"OO\" is at +16.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to spacing, I don't mind agreeing with Slimbach one bit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 20:30:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I don\u2019t know that it makes sense to cite a positive o-o kern out of
    context. How large are the sidebearings to begin with? How tight are the straights
    & arches? And what is being gained or lost in other areas?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    reason it makes sense (to me) is that it reduces the need to fix a bigger mess
    on the negative end.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat may be all well and good; but in
    the case of Minion Pro, for example, the o is being kerned closer to most straights
    (on both sides, in many cases) and away from rounds. So, I don\u2019t think Slimbach
    is employing this method in order to fix any \u201Cbigger messes\u201D on the
    negative end. There are plenty of negative kerns.\r\n\r\nInstead, he seems to
    \u201Csplit the difference\u201D and then push things back and forth.\r\n\r\nIs
    this a better strategy? I don\u2019t know. \r\n\r\nMy point is mainly that you
    can\u2019t really cite the presence of specific kern pairs out of context. You
    have to examine the entire strategy and the results.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>David,
    don't you think metal types would have been better spaced if they had kerning
    (I mean in the sense we use it now)? </blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou may have meant this
    rhetorically, but I\u2019ve begun to wonder if the answer to this is so obvious.
    Yes, it may have been able to be more even (as we now define that quality), but
    would that make it <em>ipso facto</em> better? Are today\u2019s books easier to
    read than yesteryear\u2019s? I don\u2019t have a pat answer.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-12 21:37:42'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Adam\r\nI\u2019ve just been sent a booklet entitled <a href=\"http://www.lecturisbooks.nl/NL/catalogus/0/0/1/16614\"><em>Framing
    Fonts</em> by Niko Spelbrink (Lecturis Publishing) </a>, which is the output from
    his typography elective teaching at RMIT University, Melbourne, where <em>many
    younger type designers have looked at existing typefaces and studied them</em>.
    While more concerned with the observation and measurement of character outlines
    and ink coverage, the last page gives the scope of the project as a list of 41
    typefaces (complete with foundry, format and version info), several of which have
    already been commented on in the thread so far; \r\nBaskerville, Century Gothic,
    Didot, Garamond Premier Pro, Adobe Garamond Pro, Georgia, Gill Sans, Lucida Grande,
    Lucida Sans, Minion, Myriad, Quadraat, Scala Sans, Times, Times New Roman, Trebuchet,
    Arno, Avenir, Bodoni, Bodoni Std, Chaparral Pro, Cochin, Corbel, DIN, Hoefler
    Text, Kievit, Letter Gothic, Meta, Meta Serif Pro, Mrs Eaves, Museo Sans, Palatino,
    Proforma, Quadraat Sans, Sabon, Simple, Soho Std, Spectrum, Syntax, Triplex, Verdana.\r\nPerhaps
    this is based on Niko\u2019s own list of favourites \u2013 several of them are
    very badly spaced indeed, while others were designed on unit-based systems and/or
    badly spaced when they were digitised. The booklet suggests a broader range and
    further results in due course. I don\u2019t know how many students are involved.\r\nSeeing
    as Jos Buivenga\u2019s Museo Sans is mentioned here, would it be inappropriate
    to mention the spacing & kerning service he uses? <a href=\"http://ikern.com/k1/\">Igino
    Marini\u2019s iKern</a> (which I'm sure you know of already)."
  created: '2012-04-13 00:58:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I think I did a good job on Charis roman. It is not a pretty font, but the
    spacing and character fit are now good enough that several different leadings
    work well with one setting size, to me, the <cite>sine qua non</cite> of a well-spaced
    font.\r\n\r\nAs it is open source, I could email it to you if you're interested.\r\n\r\nedit:\r\n\r\nSince
    I don't use class kerning, the accented letters, of which there are many in Charis,
    are not kerned. This may mean it is not of interest to you."
  created: '2012-04-13 01:24:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Charles, what is your view of the extensive kerning style that Slimbach has
    developed? Is it an advantage? Or do you go with David Berlow''s view that less
    than 10 units isn''t worth the effort? '
  created: '2012-04-13 02:03:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I agree with David in principle -- then find myself using 5 or 8 units for
    a lot of pairs...\r\n\r\nOne oddity -- it is rare for me to change a kern value
    in Matthew Carter's fonts. I add pairs, but rarely change anything he's already
    addressed. Quite different for Adobe fonts, though I wonder if Slimbach does the
    kerning himself?"
  created: '2012-04-13 02:27:14'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I\u2019d be very surprised if Slimbach did not do the base kerning himself,
    since it is such an integral part of the fitting of his designs, as opposed to
    secondary adjustments of intransigent pairs."
  created: '2012-04-13 13:36:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> was the 18-unit system replaced with a 100-unit one?\r\n\r\nSorry, this
    isn't necessarily correct, since even if you limit your sidebearing determination
    to multiples of ten* if the outlines themselves don't snap to multiples of ten
    the <em>advance widths</em> will have no such coarseness.\r\n\r\n* Actually another
    flaw in my question, since that's not the same as greater-than-10.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I assume that anybody who uses no kerns less than a given value should have all
    the kerns in a multiple of that value*. For example in Vem (Ernestine's Armenian
    component) all my kerns are multiples of 5.\r\n\r\n* Except perhaps very small
    collision-avoidance kerns.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-13 13:46:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The spacing of metal fonts should indeed not be seen as \"out-of-whack\",
    because of their inescapable physical limitations. But if you digitize a metal
    font and pretend it's not worth improving the spacing (assuming you're not vying
    for total historical accuracy) to me that's out-of-whack.\r\n\r\n> 10 is as small
    a kern as I'd use\r\n\r\nI never go below 5, so Slimbach's 2s do indeed seem like
    overkill to me as well. But what about sidebearing determination? I myself stop
    at 2 (and that's for my best effort, not just anything).\r\n\r\nLike when making
    the new NHG, was the 18-unit system replaced with a 100-unit one?  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    a change from one method to the other could simply signal a believe in the fonts
    being used primarily in environments with kerning enabled.\r\n\r\nThat makes sense
    on the surface, but I would counter with the obvious: having kerns in place doesn't
    hurt when there's no kerning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-13 14:20:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "<cite>BTW, I assume that anybody who uses no kerns less than a given value
    should have all the kerns in a multiple of that value*.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    agree with that assumption. Remember that kerns don\u2019t create spacing by themselves,
    they <em>correct</em> the default spacing provided by the sidebearings. \r\n\r\nPeople
    may choose not to provide small kerns for efficiency in the design process (speed
    or reviewing and correction, and easier management of a large set of data), for
    size reduction (still an issue if you have a very large character set, also there
    are the infamous limitations to the OpenType GPOS subtable size), and for the
    reason that tiny adjustments may lie below a certain visual threshold of perception
    (especially if the fonts are primarily intended for small sizes). \r\n\r\nThink
    of a string in a guitar: if it\u2019s hopelessly off tune, you\u2019ll want to
    tune it, but if it\u2019s just off tune a tiny bit, you yourself may not hear
    it, and the audience often won\u2019t either. Similarly, if the default spacing
    provided by the sidebearings is \u201Coff tune\u201D just a tiny bit, you may
    neglect a small-value kerning pair, but if it\u2019s \u201Cmore off tune\u201D,
    then you\u2019ll need to tune it, but the goal of that tuning is getting it \u201Con
    tune\u201D again and not of changing the pitch by a preconceived shift. \r\n\r\nAnother
    example: if a wall that\u2019s supposed to be \u201Cstraight\u201D is off-balance
    by less than 5 degrees, then perhaps you won\u2019t necessarily change it, but
    if it\u2019s off-balance by more than 5 degrees, then you will want to fix it,
    yet it doesn\u2019t mean that your corrections will always be in steps of 5 degrees.
    \r\n\r\nI\u2019d put it differently: if you assume that you don\u2019t kern by
    less than 5 units in a 1000 UPM font, then it means that your tolerance of spacing
    errors is 0.5% of the point size, so in 12 pt type you agree that the acceptable
    deviation from the \u201Cideal\u201D spacing is less than 0.06pt. I.e. you agree
    that your spacing may be off by 1 unit or 2 units or 3 units or 4 units. \r\n\r\nSo
    to be consistant, you would also accept that your other kerning pairs may be \u201Coff
    by up to 5 units\u201D, so for example, you could <em>cluster</em> all the kerning
    values which are different by less than 5 units. I.e. if you have a kerning pair
    of \u201341, a pair of \u201343 and another of \u201344, you might change them
    all to \u201343. But it doesn\u2019t mean that you\u2019d need to make them \u201345
    or \u201340 (i.e. in steps of 5). "
  created: '2012-04-14 17:44:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good points and analysis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-14 17:47:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nI am not sure that I quite understand the point you are after and
    I have not studied the classic kerning systems mentioned.  I am not saying that
    what I do is any great mystery or even better than the average bear.  I would
    just say that I approach kerning/spacing with a naive but purposeful plan.  Naive,
    because I have made no attempt to study the methods of master craftsman throughout
    history.  Purposeful, because my intent is to marry the process of spacing and
    kerning, simply to make the glyphs fit with little effort. I certainly use positive
    kerns when they make the job easier.  I do positive kern oo and even HH simply
    because it reduces the number of kerning pairs overall. I don't recall ever making
    a kerning pair less than 4 units either positive or negative. I tend to fit beginning
    capitals on their right side with lowercase glyphs left side because this is the
    most common occurrence of mixed case.  \r\nSince I started my journey in to type
    design within the past 8 years, it has all been digital and therefore not based
    on solutions to problems brought to bear by the older technologies.  Is this any
    better way? Who knows.  I just say that it comes only with its own baggage rather
    than including baggage influenced by past technology.\r\nNot to add credence to
    right-wing politicians, but I am a firm believer in \"Family Values\", meaning
    classes by shape in the typical class kerning scheme.  I consider some classes
    twins and other classes just siblings--that is to say, their behavior only partially
    mimics a sibling but in a predictable way.  the \"u\" and \"n\" glyphs are siblings,
    etc.\r\nI make no claim that my method is any better than anyone else's.  I just
    say that this is what makes sense to me in my attempt to revisit my inner-child.
    If this is of any use to you in your experiments, let me know and we can discuss
    it further.\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2012-04-14 19:19:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Whenever i go off to rethink spacing I look at a small number of well-spaced
    families in the class I'm interested in, containing as wide a variety of widths
    and weights as I can find.\r\n\r\n@HP \"David, don't you think metal types would
    have been better spaced if they had kerning (I mean in the sense we use it now)?\"\r\n\r\nSure!
    Not having to saw off serifs is one kerning that helped, and the Latin uppercase
    AFKLPTVWXY were not designed to fit well mechanically to its entire lowercase.
    But that's far from saying all metal fonts' spacing  was out-a-whack for lack
    of an oo kerning pair.\r\n\r\n@HP \"David, would you say Slimbach is wrong in
    positively kerning \"oo\"?\"\r\n\r\nNope! But 9/1000 ain't so far from zero that
    I'd hold it up for the class. 10 is as small a kern as I'd use, 1/100th of an
    em, and that's mildly ridiculous. Carrying around 100s of +-2-9 unit kern pairs
    is... I'm not sure what the word is in English, in Berlowese I just bow and smile
    these days.\r\n\r\nI think, that there are two general ways to do this; one is
    to space for a smaller number of kerning pairs even if it looks not as well in
    non-kerning apps, and the other is the opposite, there are more kerning pairs
    but it works better without kerning. \r\n\r\nFar from some mystical development
    of some type designer's view, a change from one method to the other could simply
    signal a belief in the fonts being used primarily in environments with kerning
    enabled. As the web has proven, kerning is not yet a safe bet to me, so I do it
    the way I always have, which means o, n and p do not kern to each other."
  created: '2012-04-16 14:02:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dez, I think Adam is trying to say that Type Design, and spacing of type,
    involve quite a bit of difference thresholding and cluster quantizing, because
    Hrant was learning about them by merging such thresholding and quantizing into
    one thing.\r\n\r\nDez: \"...consider some classes twins and other classes just
    siblings...\"\r\n\r\nTwins are so because they're quantized, siblings have been
    thresholded from each other. \r\n\r\nIt's kinda a big issue if you think about
    all things type, from a pair of counters, to the weights in a font family, where
    this pair of activities, quantholding perhaps, is much of the creative activity
    as well as being a big part, in reverse, of tt hinting."
  created: '2012-04-16 16:29:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "David, I can't envision Type Design as separated from spacing of type.  I
    can see letterform drawing perhaps as a beast of a different class but have difficulty
    prying apart the design of the spaces between letters from the spaces within a
    given letter.  To me, there are times to solve a space to neighbor problem by
    adjusting the drawing of the glyph instead of kerning.  This may seem like more
    work but it may also be critical work.\r\nSpace between glyphs can be quantified
    to a point and solved in groups.  There are instances when the proximity of terminals
    of neighbors can over-ride the quantified space (v to y for example).  The tension
    between these points has far less room for error and is often destroyed with enduser
    tracking.  It is like placing two magnets next to each other at the exact point
    where they stay in that relationship regardless of polarity. Movement in one direction
    causes immediate collision and in the other direction, disengagement.  This tension
    does not live alone. It is compounded by spacial volume and the shape of the space
    relating to nearby spaces. By this I mean that the space between parallel forms
    like A against V can create more of a magnetic attraction than unlike forms like
    S and H. When the W, A, V slopes become too  far from parallel , the counter forms
    play in a different key than  each-other and require a different spacing plan
    to play in harmony."
  created: '2012-04-16 17:12:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, since most of my work is in non-Latin I had never been involved in the
    production of fonts with very large character sets until I collaborated on Ernestine.
    I only made the Armenian glyphs but because we chose to put them in the same font
    as the Latin I hit the kerning-limit wall very early - basically I was told to
    limit the number of kerns within the Armenian somewhat severely, not least because
    some of the Armenian characters had to kern with some of the Latin ones (mostly
    the numerals and some punctuation). In contrast when you're making a font with
    not a very large character set the \"kerning philosophy\" can be qualitatively
    simpler, in a way more pure. Anyway now I realize first-hand how tricky the kerning-limit
    situation is (and frankly it's a bit surprising). Will it be fixed?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-16 17:35:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ps. The executive summary of the above: if you want to compress your data
    by hand (which is what the current spacing and kerning model is like), feel free
    to keep doing so. But I believe it shouldn\u2019t be the only possible way of
    working."
  created: '2012-04-17 07:13:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\nunfortunately, the 64K limit (65,536) is deeply tied into
    the OpenType font format specification, for example: \r\n\r\n* An OpenType font
    can only hold up to 64K glyphs; it may appear as a large number but the Unicode
    Standard 6.1 encoded 110,181 characters. Some people may say that it\u2019s \u201Cnot
    necessary\u201D to include glyphs for all Unicode characters in one font \u2014
    but that, indeed, depends on the subjective notion of necessity. \r\n\r\n* The
    OpenType \u201Ckern\u201D table, which holds the \u201Cold-style\u201D TrueType
    pair kerning information can include multiple subtables, each of them being limited
    to 64KB in size, which translates to up to 10,920 kerning pairs. If you were to
    kern each glyph with every other one, you could only provide a kerning table for
    104 glyphs using this mechanism. Of course you don\u2019t kern each glyph with
    every other one, but at least this limit means that you can only provide kerning
    for about 100 glyphs that need kerning. The kerning can be placed into multiple
    subtables but not all operating systems and applications can access more than
    one subtable in the \u201Ckern\u201D kerning table. \r\n\r\n* The OpenType \u201CGPOS\u201D
    table, which holds the \u201Cnew-style\u201D OpenType kerning can include multiple
    subtables (each limited to 64KB in size), but kerning in the \u201Ckern\u201D
    feature can be expressed using class kerning pairs and individual glyph kerning
    pairs, and can be split into multiple lookups (that are being executed one after
    another). Also, a special ExtensionType GPOS lookup can be used to address subtables
    with an offset larger than 16-bit but the subtable size is still limited to 64KB.
    The combination of multiple lookups (simple and extension), multiple subtables
    and class kerning theoretically lifts the limit in kerning size, but is difficult
    to handle for the designer. (Writing all these lookups, subtables and classes
    so that they just fit into technical limitations of OpenType is like as if you
    were forced to write your novel with just the words and syntax that allow Google
    Translate to automatically translate your novel into a different language.) Also,
    various operating systems and applications do not support multiple lookups in
    the \u201Ckern\u201D feature, or the extension-type lookups. So in addition, you
    need to prioritize your kerning values: put the largest adjustments into the first
    subtables or lookups, and put the minor adjustments \u201Cfurther down the stream\u201D
    in anticipation that they get ignored by some apps. \r\n\r\nType design always
    has been subject to limitations of the currently available technology. But the
    limitations of the technology imposed by the OpenType font format should be easily
    solvable for today\u2019s software. After all, we have gigahertzes of CPU power
    and gigabytes of RAM at our disposal. Unfortunately, we have to yet see a software
    developer who writes a good bullet-proof algorithm for expressing any kerning
    table, regardless of its size and complication, within the boundaries of the OpenType
    reality. We at Fontlab Ltd. are working on such solution, but the results aren\u2019t
    yet ready for prime-time. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I believe the current paradigm of
    spacing (setting sidebearings) and kerning to be a mechanism of compression. If
    you look at the image formats such as PNG and JPEG, they include a \u201Cprogressive\u201D
    flavor where high-resolution images are compressed and in addition, lower-resolution
    versions (also compressed, but with less details visible) are provided in one
    file. The difference between PNG and JPEG is that PNG is \u201Clossless\u201D
    i.e. after decompressing, you get exactly the same pixels as before compression,
    while JPEG is \u201Clossy\u201D i.e. some neighboring pixels are made the same
    during compression and the pixel-perfectness gets degraded (by a factor determined
    by the user). The more loss, the more efficient the compression. \r\n\r\nWe\u2019re
    working on transferring these concepts onto glyph spacing and kerning. In my view,
    sidebearings provide the \u201Ctopmost\u201D rule for spacing glyphs (\u201Cthis
    is how this glyph spaces to <em>all</em> other glyphs including glyphs from other
    fonts\u201D), class kerning provides spacing corrections to pairs of glyph groups
    (\u201Cthis is how this glyph spaces to <em>many</em> other glyphs, correcting
    the previous spacing\u201D), and individual pair kerning (class kerning exceptions)
    provide additional corrections to pairs of individual glyphs (\u201Cthis is how
    this glyph spaces to <em>this other</em> glyph, correcting the previous spacing
    even more\u201D). Following this paradigm, contextual kerning (which is possible
    in \u201CGPOS\u201D) provides correction in yet more isolated cases. \r\n\r\nThis
    is almost like the \u201Cprogressive\u201D image formats. \u201CJust sidebearings\u201D
    are the lowest-resolution version of the image, and sidebearings plus class kerning
    plus exceptions are the highest-resolution version. The way the sidebearings,
    the kerning classes, the subtables, the lookups, the individual pairs etc. are
    set up in a font is primarily a <em>technical matter</em> of dealing with <em>compressing
    all spacing situations between all glyphs</em> into a specific compressed format.
    \r\n\r\nAlong the same lines, if PNG is lossless and JPEG is lossy, then the cluster
    quantizing of spacing or kerning values is a method for lossy compression. \r\n\r\nNote
    that some image editing applications, when producing the lower-resolution versions
    of \u201Cprogressive\u201D image formats, or when producing lower-resolution thumbnails
    for images, apply some image-processing filters \u2014 notably sharpening. This
    is very similar to the quantization and hinting techniques which David Berlow
    has been talking about for a long time. \r\n\r\nType designers and font engineers
    have become accustomed to drawing optical sizes, performing outline quantization,
    hinting, setting sidebearings, making kerning classes, setting the class kerning
    values, adding kerning pair exceptions etc. \u2014 mostly by hand, and sometimes
    as semi-automated steps. \r\n\r\nHowever, all these steps have been mostly performed
    separately from each other. I believe that a lot of knowledge that has been gathered
    in image-processing research with regard to compression, low-resolution optimization,
    progressive image encoding etc., can be applied to type design and digital font
    production. \r\n\r\nSometimes, I think that type design and font production today
    works as if a digital photographer were hand-editing each region of a compressed
    JPEG image, fiddling with different regions, applying shuffling various compression
    parameters and filters by hand of all the different regions of an image. Or as
    if the font engineer was compressing a JPEG image by hand, writing each compressed
    segment himself (and running a somewhat imperfect, simplified version of the compression
    algorithm in his head). \r\n\r\nWhile this may be a good working method for some,
    I don\u2019t think this has to be the only working method for all. The image editing
    software has done tremendous progress in developing all kinds of smart algorithms
    \u2014 which was mostly because images arrived on the web and bandwidth was sparse.
    \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, fonts arrived on the web at a time when bandwidth is no
    longer so sparse. And fonts are relatively small compared to images. I think if
    webfonts had taken off back in the IE/EOT times of 1996, we would have been in
    a much better place now when it comes to software tools. \r\n\r\nBut I still believe
    that there is a lot to be done. We should work on automatic algorithms for \u201Celectronic
    type compression and low-sizes optimization\u201D (which includes autohinting
    as much as intelligent dealing with spacing/kerning). \r\n\r\nSome weeks ago I
    found this Typophile thread on <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/66574\">alternative
    spacing paradigms</a> from two years ago. Much of what I\u2019ve read there was
    in-sync with my own thoughts and concepts that I\u2019ve been developing over
    the last two years myself. \r\n\r\nSo I started this current thread to gather
    some additional input data and get some discussion going \u2014 so that I can
    work on some models that, on one hand, could improve the current paradigm of doing
    spacing/kerning (by possibly separating it from the internal details of how this
    is handled in the OpenType font format), and on the other hand, could finally
    address the \u201Ccompression\u201D problems properly. \r\n\r\nBecause I\u2019m
    really unhappy to see the \u201Csubtable break\u201D problem being reported for
    the 987th time. But the \u201Csubtable break\u201D problem cannot be reasonably
    addressed in isolation, just by itself. The whole thing needs a fresh look. \r\n\r\nSo
    I\u2019m wiping my glasses now. :)\r\n\r\nThanks for the discussion so far,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-04-17 07:14:42'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "I don't know if you plan an interactive module or just a \"compressing\"
    tool, but I am very impressed.\r\n\r\nEver wondered why we, graphic designers,
    hated Quark, and why so quickly migrated en masse  to InDesign. Well, I guess,
    because it was not a pre-press program. It was a program <em>about</em> pre-press.\r\nDefinitely
    - as it was with Quark - the current font creation technology is too focused on
    telling a story about itself, about its history and current state. We think with
    pre-computer paradigms, because our new tools still mimic the old workshop. But
    wherever possible, the mechanically repetitable, technology-specific issues  should
    be hidden from the user and displayed only on request (as it is with the JPEG
    compression settings/previews), because when a man does the work of the machine,
    he is a machine. It's the effect, that counts - not the way the classes were set.
    Any tool that helps to focus solely on the work will bring great relief.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-17 09:39:53'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Adam, I don't think it fits your model, but another tool for letterfit is
    to use alternate glyphs. For example, an \"f\" with a fairly large negative right
    sidebearing allows you to skip kerns with many x-height lowercase letters, at
    the cost of problems with glyphs having ascenders (or \"ink\", as with quotes)
    on the left, and word spaces. A second \"f with a bit shorter terminal and a bit
    less negative sidebearing can be quite useful. The trick is to make the difference
    between the two glyphs at least unobjectional, if not unnoticeable. \r\n\r\n*
    *  *\r\nThe way I think about kerning is any kern value between a pair of letters
    is limited to the case worst situation. For example, take a look at the string\r\n\r\nA',\"
    \r\n\r\nin Adobe's Warnock. Any two of those in combination look just fine. But
    the four together -- which can happen in a text -- creates a mess.\r\n\r\nI'm
    stealing from my chapter in a forthcoming book here. A few more typophile posts
    and the chapter will lose all value. But what you're after is important, I think.
    As you define the problem, I worry it will cause sacrifices on the shapes of some
    glyphs, but that's a worry, not a fleshed-out thought.\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2012-04-17 10:08:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Marcin, \r\n\r\nWe plan both. Basically, if we decide to break the welded
    bond between how spacing and kerning is expressed technically and how it can be
    defined by the designer, then we will have to come up with good solutions for
    both parts: a good design tool which is free of the technical constraints, and
    a good \u201Ccompression\u201D mechanism. \r\n\r\nCharles, \r\n\r\nthis fits my
    model perfectly. I\u2019m glad we\u2019re thinking along the same lines! \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-04-17 14:36:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Trajan is well spaced, but it employs a methodology that only works for capitals.\r\n\r\nAccordingly,
    it might be a good idea to have two sets of caps for u&lc fonts, same glyphs but
    different sidebearings, one for all caps and the other for u&lc.\r\n\r\nNot that
    strange, really, as we already have bi-spaced \uFB01gures (tabular and proportional).\r\n\r\nThe
    trick would be to integrate this into the FontLab interface without cluttering
    up the main glyph panel; nesting or layers, perhaps?"
  created: '2012-04-17 20:49:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dez: \"David, I can't envision Type Design as separated from spacing of type.\"\r\n\r\nDid
    I suggest such a thing is even remotely possible?\r\n\r\nAdam: \" But I believe
    it shouldn\u2019t be the only possible way of working\"\r\n\r\nI agree :) the
    only caution I'd give is not to go too far with the image compression analogy.
    Or explain, is an image likened unto a font's glyph, to a font, or to a font family?\r\n\r\nAnd
    also don't forget that for years I've been saying that simplified postscript font
    and hint creation and editing \"shouldn\u2019t be the only possible way of working\".
    So, I'm surprised you're taking a giant step in spacing before FL-drawing gets
    the more sophisticated capabilities of TT contours and hints.\r\n\r\nWe should
    all be pushing however we can, for more sophisticated drawing, spacing, compositing
    and hinting tools, integrated to each other and to capabilities at, above and
    beyond the capabilities of the puny human formats we have now, shouldn't we!?\r\n\r\nNick:
    \"Clockwork\"\r\n\r\nWhat clockwork!? \"ocr\" repeats thrice, spaced once for
    each word.:)"
  created: '2012-04-18 14:49:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Things are \uFB01ne the way they are.\r\nWhy redesign the core to \uFB01x
    a few peripheral glitches?\r\nIf you do make changes, please keep classic as default.\r\nI
    hate it when \u201Cupgrades\u201D turn me into a senile novice.\r\n\r\nHow about
    slant-angle guides?\r\nThat would help kerning italics.\r\nEspecially in combination
    with the Measurement Line.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-18 17:02:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nwe\u2019re re-imagining our font editing products: in our
    new codebase (codenamed Victoria), we have rewritten it from scratch, completely
    expanded its possibilities, developed a new flexible storage system for working
    files, removed the limitation of integer coordinates. We\u2019ll be introducing
    a new drawing environment with improved drawing tools, some completely new drawing
    tools for both PostScript and TrueType outlines, with fully new approach to guidelines
    and the grid. It\u2019s under heavy development now, parallel to the development
    of FontLab Studio 6, which will still be based on the current FontLab Studio codebase
    with some improvements within the existing paradigm. So we\u2019re working two-fold
    (short-term and longer-term). \r\n\r\nWe believe that Victoria will be a radical
    improvement for type design. For some time, both FontLab Studio 6 and Victoria-based
    products will likely co-exist, because users will need to re-learn the tools when
    switching from FLS to Victoria. Also, it\u2019s likely that in the first iteration
    of Victoria, not all of FLS\u2019s functionalities will be replicated right away.
    \r\n\r\nI myself think of FontLab Studio being like Adobe PageMaker, and Victoria
    being like Adobe InDesign. InDesign 1.0 was, on one hand, much more flexible than
    PageMaker and free of many of its limitations, but it still took some time until
    InDesign incorporated (and improved) all of PageMaker\u2019s capabilities. \r\n\r\nAs
    for hinting, there are numerous projects going on right now in the world (there\u2019s
    VTT-based workflows, there is FreeType ttfautohint, there is RoboHint, and there
    are our own FontLab TT Hinting tools). We\u2019d love to create a common project
    with all the parties involved that would allow at least basic interoperability
    between the various tools. For example, we\u2019d like to be able to use the same
    basic information that RoboHint or VTT uses. We\u2019d like to be able to read
    the \u201Cwings\u201D, even if perhaps not all of the tools\u2019 functionalities
    would be the same. \r\n\r\nSince we\u2019ve supported Werner Lemberg financially
    in the development of the FreeType ttfautohint project, and intend to continue
    to do so, I think it\u2019d be very likely that we could come to an agreement
    at least between RoboHint, FreeType and FontLab for some interoperable notation.
    Do you know if RoboHint would be interested in open-sourcing or publishing at
    least some aspects? I think the actual contents of the wings and winglets could
    be owned by various developers, but the basic underlying data could be shared.
    We\u2019d love to get involved in this. \r\n\r\nI agree that the image compression
    metaphor shouldn\u2019t be transferred literally to font editing. For me, the
    \u201Cuncompressed image\u201D is analogous to a \u201Cspacing matrix\u201D \u2014
    the relative positions of each glyph in a font to every other glyph in a font
    (with the \u201Ctext run left boundary\u201D and the \u201Ctext run right boundary\u201D
    being pseudoglyphs in that matrix). Such spacing matrix is a finite, \u201Cdecompressed\u201D
    representation of glyph positioning in a font. Such a spacing matrix can be expressed
    or approximated with (i.e. \u201Ccompressed into\u201D) various combinations of
    sidebearings and kerning pairs. If the glyph pairs are prioritized by their frequency
    of appearance in real text, this would influence the compression mechanism \u2014
    the most frequent combinations should have a preference of being expressed by
    sidebearings while the less frequent combinations could be expressed by kerning.
    Some very rare combinations or such that practically never occur in real life
    could be eliminated from kerning, especially if the kerning values were small.
    It\u2019s a bit similar to how some audio compression mechanisms work \u2014 the
    frequencies that are less hearable by the human ear are compressed more aggressively
    (more lossy) while the frequencies to which the human ear is more sensitive are
    compressed more moderately (less lossy). \r\n\r\nThat\u2019s roughly my direction
    of thinking. Comments? \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-18 17:30:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ps. In a message that I cannot find right now, I compared the glyph design
    and the layout/positioning in a font to the video and audio tracks in a video
    file. A video file typically has one video track but can have multiple audio track
    (for different languages, and with different mastering quality \u2014 mono, stereo,
    dolby 5.1). \r\n\r\nAn analogy could be made that a font usually has one set of
    glyph images but can have several kinds of layout/positioning info (TrueType kern
    table, OpenType GSUB+GPOS tables, TrueType GX/AAT tables, SIL Graphite tables
    etc.). TrueType and OpenType layout models are a bit like English mono (no kerning),
    English stereo (TrueType kern table kerning) and English dolby 5.1 (OpenType GPOS+GSUB),
    while TrueType GX/AAT and SIL Graphite are a bit like Norwegian and Slovenian
    audio tracks. The browsers that can display a font but ignore all kerning and
    features are like audio equipment that can only play mono audio tracks. \r\n\r\nOf
    course, these are all just coarse analogies, but if we stick to that analogy (video+audio
    tracks vs. glyph design+layout/positioning), we can assume that in a video file,
    there can be very independent compression and optimization algorithms for video
    and audio, just like the glyph optimization and compression mechanisms (different
    hinting, embedded bitmaps, different outline flavors, different UPM sizes, outline
    quantization etc.) are different from the possible layout/positioning optimization
    and compression mechanisms (that I talked about before). But of course, the tracks
    still need to be in-sync. \r\n\r\nI mostly draw up those analogies for myself
    so that I can explore existing approaches, processes, algorithms or methods employed
    by people who work in those fields that I draw the analogies into. Sometimes I
    find that some approaches developed for areas completely unrelated to type can
    be potentially employed in type design and font production, but of course often
    they need to be adapted for the specifics of type design. And of course, sometimes
    my analogies are moot. Yet it\u2019s rather refreshing to still draw them :) "
  created: '2012-04-18 17:41:30'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Different outline flavors\r\n\r\nI'd be interested to see if there could
    be any implementation of Spiro/cornu curves in a future FontLab. "
  created: '2012-04-18 17:49:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Bendy, \r\n\r\ntheoretically, yes. However, I believe Raph Levien\u2019s
    policy is to grant free licenses for his Spiro patent only to GPL projects while
    requiring some royalties for use of his Spiro patents in commercial products.
    \r\n\r\nI have not yet analyzed the sources of opensource fonts made with FontForge
    as to how many of them actually have used Spiro (which is included in FontForge).
    I think it would be a reasonable indicator as to whether the technology has sufficient
    interest in the community. "
  created: '2012-04-18 18:02:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm planning to give FontForge/Spiro a try. \r\n\r\nIt could be a bit of
    a chicken-and-egg: commercial foundries, who are mainly using FL, may not be aware
    of Spiro if FL isn't yet supporting it. One wouldn't want to exclude that interest
    if one is trying to gauge it. But then, I don't know how much the foundries look
    around at other workflows and software. Maybe they have tried FontForge/Spiro."
  created: '2012-04-18 18:57:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry, David. I misread: \"Dez, I think Adam is trying to say that Type Design,
    and spacing of type, involve quite a bit of difference thresholding and cluster
    quantizing,\"\r\nI misunderstood \"difference\" as \"Different\".\r\n\r\nIn the
    words of SNL's  Emily Littella, \"Never Mind\""
  created: '2012-04-18 20:24:42'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Besides Raph's fonts,  Dave Crossland's Cantarell used spiros for the initial
    drawing (if I remember properly), and I've used spiros to greater and lesser degrees
    in all my font projects. Sometimes it just depends on what kind of shape I want.
    Some unpublished things I have been working on use spiros almost exclusively.
    What would really make spiros useful is to be able to use them in conjunction
    with cubic splines at the same time. As in, the ability to set spline types based
    upon contour vs. glyph.
  created: '2012-04-18 20:52:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What I would like to see are plus/minus 0-100% slider preferences for typical
    spacing and kerning patterns.  This would allow a type designer using the software
    to make educated kerning changes characterset wide.  An example would be o-o,
    n-n, n-u, v-n, v-v, etc..\r\nThis would allow for a table of neighboring shape
    interactions which could be portable and editable.  It would greatly reduce the
    amount of time by reducing the number of interactions needed to kern or set sidebearings
    for a given font.  The computer could read left and right shapes of glyphs for
    categorization but allow manual override by the user. When finished, the software
    could then set classes and metrics globally.  Changes could be made globally as
    well.  The user set slidebar settings would vary with font width, serifs, contrast,
    etc. as the user sees fit."
  created: '2012-04-18 21:22:05'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "@Adam - re: removing requirement for integer co\xF6rdinates ..\r\n\r\nWhat
    would be the impact on rendering engines (if any)?"
  created: '2012-04-19 01:56:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HVB: \"...impact on rendering engines (if any)...?\r\n\r\nI'd guess no impact.
    Sub-integer coordinates get rounded to integer coordinates for generation of TT
    0r PS fonts.  TT and PS fonts are rendered from these integer values, usually
    today with sub-pixel values being determined from the integer values of the outline
    coordinates. \r\n\r\nAT: \"I mostly draw up those analogies for myself... \" \r\n\r\nI
    think that's best, as the true nature of type design, from the first scratch in
    a tool to the  deployment of device-, layout- and language-independent typography,
    is less like anything else, the more one understands it. :)\r\n\r\n...and: \"For
    example, we\u2019d [FL] like to be able to use the same basic information that
    RoboHint or VTT uses.\" \r\n\r\nIn VTT's case, you're better off dealing with
    Microsoft, but we're talking about a documented and extendable font format (SFNT)*,
    so usability by other programs is entirely up to the program's programmer. VTT
    adds a table(s) that VTT interprets from VTT-talk to TT, and you can read and
    interpret that talk in FL if you write an interpreter, no?\r\n\r\nIn Robohint's
    case, as Petr presents it, he's just finishing the translation of all the TT hints
    to Python, implementing scaling, dash-boarding the graphic state (which VTT lost),
    displaying all the popular renderings and debugging the inter-hint translators.
    (It's not in alpha yet, but Robohint's use is not intended to be limited to me
    or by me).\r\n\r\nOn Winglet (a feature-specific single-dimensional output-specific
    hint set), and Wing (a complete single-dimensional output-specific hint set);
    they should \"technically\" be followed by the word \"Command\", and are followed
    up in a hierarchy by \"Glyph Commands\",  \"Glyph Sub-Group Commands\", \"Glyph
    Group Commands\" and up to \"Font Family Commands\", (or they could be \"Winglet
    Command, \"Wing Command\", \"Stroke Command\", \"Sub-radical Command\", \"Radical
    Command\", etc... whatever one needs to order their parametric scaling, actually)
    \u2014 these are just terms invented to contain python code.\r\n\r\nSo, I don't
    think anything technical should stop a marriage of use if FL is up-to-date in
    Python versions, reads and writes TT instructions in one of the common tongues
    and if vfb maintains close contact with the capabilities of TT & UFO as they evolve,
    which is all up to FL, no?\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-04-19 13:42:30'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "\"What would be the impact on rendering engines (if any)?\"\r\nI made an
    experiment and there is the difference in rendered outline. [I made two fonts
    where one point  1) has integer coordinate and 2) moved a bit. winXP + CorelDraw
    and FontForge, as FF does not round to integer coordinates for generation of TT
    0r PS fonts.] "
  created: '2012-04-19 14:29:22'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@Nick &ndash; Why redo the core? Well, since you are not a programmer, you
    have never seen source code grow scar tissue over time as patches and bug fixes
    are applied until it becomes an unwieldy, unmanage\xADable mess."
  created: '2012-04-20 13:57:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\n> Why redesign the core to \uFB01x a few peripheral glitches?\r\n\r\nAs
    you are a type designer, you\u2019ll know that there are situations when you can,
    indeed, \u201Cfix some peripheral glitches\u201D such as improve some kerning
    pairs or fix a few odd outlines, like I\u2019m sure Robert Slimbach had done with
    Adobe Garamond when he was working on Adobe Garamond Pro. \r\n\r\nBut then, there
    is also time for a comprehensive re-imagining, and redrawing everything from scratch,
    where you don\u2019t need to worry about backwards compatibility, document reflow
    etc. Which is what Slimbach did with Garamond Premier Pro. \r\n\r\nBoth Adobe
    Garamond Pro and Garamond Premier Pro are on sale, and we intend to make incremental
    improvements to FontLab Studio as it exists today, but also have a new platform
    which allows us for much greater flexibility. On top of that, the new platform
    is by design much more stable because it follows a different style of programming.
    It\u2019s easier to fix problems or change things, because they\u2019re all cleanly
    separated from each other rather than being interwoven deeply. \r\n\r\nWe consider
    the FontLab Studio codebase \u201Cmature\u201D, in both positive and negative
    connotations of that word. The positive aspect of maturity is that it\u2019s well-known,
    familiar and predictable, but the downside is that it\u2019s much less agile and
    flexible, and it takes a lot of time to change things. The Victoria codebase is
    \u201Cyoung and learning\u201D, currently in its teens. It still needs to learn
    quite a few things (including learning from FontLab Studio), but has immense potential.
    \r\n\r\nThe codebases are 15 years apart, and since software ages a bit more faster
    than people, it\u2019s roughly equivalent to one human generation. There is time
    in which both generations (parents and children) are \u201Cprofessionally active\u201D,
    and we\u2019re approaching the moment this starts. At some point, the old codebase
    will be retired and only the younger generation will be active, but it\u2019s
    still a *long* way towards that. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-20 15:26:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As a software user, I wasn\u2019t thinking of the underlying codebase, but
    the design of the interface.\r\n\r\nWhat not to do: Apple\u2019s recent redesign
    of its Mail app replaced the text on its main buttons with icons. The previous
    \u201CReply All\u201D text has been replaced by an icon I\u2019ve always identi\uFB01ed
    as \u201CFast Rewind\u201D. \u201CGet Mail\u201D is now represented by an envelope,
    but why is that get rather than send?\u2014both actions involve envelopes. And
    so on. \r\n\r\nSo please, don\u2019t redesign the way the interface looks, or
    the way tools work. \r\n\r\nI could do with a larger palette of Mark colors, though,
    and the ability to name them, e.g. Yellow = Small Caps.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 17:08:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>In 1985, after a year of finding that pretty but unlabeled icons
    confused customers, the Apple human interface group took on the motto \"A word
    is worth a thousand pictures.\"</blockquote>\r\nhttp://www.asktog.com/columns/038MacUITrends.html"
  created: '2012-07-02 18:30:30'
date: '2012-04-10 21:34:46'
title: Extremely well-spaced & kerned fonts?

---
