---
author:
  name: Stephen Coles
  picture: 128126
body: 'A question for <a href="http://www.fontzone.com/zine/Subscribe.html" target="_blank">FontZone</a>
  subscribers: Is it worth the GBP20?'
comments:
- author:
    name: schaffs
  body: I have just joined FontZone, and yes I think it&#39;s <BR>worth it so far,
    but I probably say that because haven&#39;t yet trawled the the archive features
    and information, haven&#39;t noticed how much the site gets updated! ask me again
    in 6 months? <BR> <BR>P.S Just registered on Typophile and am very impresed, and
    no fee!  Even better.
  created: '2003-02-14 15:11:13'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Stephen, I think the best judge of that is yourself '
  created: '2003-02-20 22:12:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hey Clive.  <BR> <BR>Your quantity is impressive, indeed. I&#39;d just like
    to hear <BR>from some subscribers about the <i>quality</i> of the content.
  created: '2003-02-20 22:32:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I think the best judge of that is yourself <BR> <BR>Only if he were
    a subscriber - which he&#39;s obviously not. It&#39;s not the titles &#40;and
    certainly not the number of titles&#41; of the articles that matters - it&#39;s
    what&#39;s inside. And although I agree that FontZone doesn&#39;t have a free
    &#40;or really any other single&#41; equivalent online, it can be argued that
    the combination of things like Typographica and the MS news site is plenty &#40;and
    possibly richer and more objective&#41;. Personally, if I were in a position to
    gain anything &#40;like business insight&#41; from FontZone, I would subscribe.
    <BR> <BR>So does anybody besides Neil &#40;who hasn&#39;t really been subscribed
    long enough&#41; have any opinions? <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>BTW, Stephen, how do
    you know it&#39;s Clive? What if somebody logged on as ChampagneBrut and started
    saying things like &#34;screw you if you don&#39;t subscribe to FontZone - I don&#39;t
    need you anyway&#34;? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-20 23:19:18'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: 'Oh, surely that would never happen <i>here</i>, would it? '
  created: '2003-02-20 23:23:16'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hrant, I think the quality is as it was when the site was free - you can
    remember that far back, right? <BR> <BR>So why now make a charge? Because we want
    to encourage fresh writing and publishing projects - and reward the contributors
    of that content. <BR> <BR>If you&#39;ll pay for industry insight - check out the
    article just posted from the type technology meeting in Heidelberg, you&#39;re
    not going to get more timely feedback. <BR> <BR>Objectivity? In the eye of the
    beholder I think. There are certainly some strong opinions expressed in many of
    the articles on the site - everyone&#39;s going to find something to disagree
    with, if that&#39; what they want. <BR> <BR>If you visit the site check through
    the articles in the preview section, then you can make your own minds up. <BR>
    <BR>Three things are certain: <BR> <BR>As of today, I&#39;ve never had a request
    yet for a refund on a subscription - but there&#39;s always a first time. Certainly
    many have used the free trial vouchers in circulation and then not takn out a
    full subscription. <BR> <BR>We&#39;re currently working on a project to sell content
    through micro-payment schemes - possibly selling articles for as little as 50p/75
    cents a shot. If you can&#39;t bear to be parted from 20 quid. <BR> <BR>Fontzone
    is an ongoing project, it will get better as time goes on, the whole content of
    the site from the first day it was published back in 1996 is avaialble to all
    subscribers &#40;as Neil alludes&#41; - we have plans that are rapidly coming
    to fruition to add to the site from other archives - which are available no where
    else online. <BR> <BR>But there&#39;s no rush - watch and wait, when you&#39;re
    ready get your credit card out - I don&#39;t want anyone to be disappointed with
    what they&#39;ve bought.'
  created: '2003-02-21 00:02:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; you can remember that far back, right? <BR> <BR>Easily, and honestly
    I was hoping/assuming it&#39;s [even] better now, considering it&#39;s no longer
    free. <BR> <BR>&#62; you&#39;re not going to get more timely feedback. <BR> <BR>Granted,
    but if I wait a week or two I can get the same info &#40;from multiple angles&#41;
    elsewhere. It&#39;s not like the font business is the stock market - good fonts
    take months/years. <BR> <BR>&#62; There are certainly some strong opinions expressed
    <BR> <BR>Strength is welcome. But private_agendas/coping_mechanisms are not. For
    example, I have noted the blind faith towards Apple; and the berserker rage against
    Bitstream &#40;don&#39;t ask me to dig it up - you&#39;d be wasting time&#41;.
    So in this case for example how can we expect you to treat Vera fairly? Case in
    point: no coverage on FontZone. You&#39;ve said &#40;at least twice in public&#41;
    that you&#39;re not a journalist - and that&#39;s fine, nobody can force you to
    be one - but you must face the fact that objectivity and the <i>intrinsic usefulness</i>
    of information &#40;from an apparent news site, no less&#41; are necessarily proportional.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; micro-payment <BR> <BR>That sounds like a great idea. <BR> <BR>Another
    great idea would be qualified public endorsements from big names. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-21 03:02:55'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: OK, just to address a couple of issues. <BR> <BR>There are Fontzone subscribers
    that frequent Typophile - if they want to contribute to the thread I&#39;ll leave
    it up to them. As far as I&#39;m concerned they are free to say what they want,
    positive or negative, I&#39;m happy to see that discussion and won&#39;t feel
    badly about negative comments. My aim is to make the site better and better -
    I won&#39;t do that without getting feedback from the users. <BR> <BR>Endorsements?
    Well, I think they voted with their wallets - they&#39;re either subscribers or
    they aren&#39;t. Again it&#39;s up to them to say what they think rather than
    for me to put them on the spot. I think this is really what Stephen was looking
    for in the first place. <BR> <BR>On that aspect I can say that Johannes Gutenberg
    told me last night that he thought Fontzone was &#34;Simply wicked&#34;. <BR>
    <BR>Private agendas. I think it&#39;s very important to remember that I&#39;m
    not the only person who writes for Fontzone - off the top of my head there&#39;s
    something like 20 who have done so in the last year. <BR> <BR>I think it&#39;s
    also important to remember that none of us are omniscient or omnipresent &#40;though
    obviously some will disagree&#41;. We can&#39;t cover every single type, book
    and software release - there are only so many hours in a day. <BR> <BR>I also
    think that agendas, whether you agreee with them or not, give strength to writing
    - otherwise what is written is merely sterile observation. <BR> <BR>On that point,
    I think that I could give good example of this at Fontzone... which even you might
    agree with. <BR> <BR>As far as Apple goes, I think this is the wrong forum, try
    <a href="http://forums.appleinsider.com" target="_blank">http://forums.appleinsider.com</a>.
    Blind faith!? Example? <BR> <BR>The micropayments thing isn&#39;t going to happen
    for a couple of months, at least, so don&#39;t hold your breath. <BR> <BR>Er,
    but I think we&#39;re getting way off topic as to what Stephen was asking, so
    I&#39;ll leave it up to subscribers to say what they want, if they want...
  created: '2003-02-21 18:37:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; they voted with their wallets <BR> <BR>But we don&#39;t know who/how_many
    &#34;they&#34; are... So what must be your <BR>primary target -potential subscribers-
    has less motivation than otherwise. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-21 20:38:04'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: '&#34;Right now there&#39;s well over 1,000 pages of content online - where
    can you buya 1,000 book, that&#39;s constantly updated, for 20 quid a year?&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Its called the web and your local library and its all free already. <BR>
    <BR>Luc Devroye&#39;s pages?! hello...he links the world of typography. the man&#39;s
    got everything - and if its not on there I say it hasn&#39;t happened yet hence
    I review typophile and typographica.  <BR> <BR>sides - gathering everything up
    is fine but I&#39;d rather take it from the real links provided so as to not mark
    up a monoplay of information that may one day dissapear. <BR> <BR>I noticed that
    the day Craig Butterworth posted his Kinky Kowgirls for review here....so it was
    listed on Luc&#39;s pages. <BR> <BR>another portal is great but I won&#39;t be
    paying for something I can&#39;t see.  <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-22 00:56:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Luc Devroye <BR> <BR>Ah, you see Tanya, Luc happens to be on CB&#39;s
    blacklist... <BR>If FZ had a crest, it would have a personal agenda rampant gules,
    pomme titanium sinister. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-22 01:47:18'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: I went to the FontZone site. Might be something I&#39;d like to look at, uncertain
    though what the selling point it here. <BR> <BR>I got three calls from Sears today
    trying to sell me term life and two from AT&amp;T trying to sell me local phone
    service. Neither would send me print info on what they were actually offering.
    The AT&amp;T guy even suggested, why would I lie to you about this, while refusing
    to fax me the info.  <BR> <BR>So, what&#39;s up with this. Send in the money and
    we will show you what we can offer? Bullshit. This is the web. <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-02-22 06:18:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Ouch. Didn&#39;t expect this kind of landslide. You might  <BR>silence the
    critics with a few sample articles, Clive.  <BR>How &#39;bout it?
  created: '2003-02-22 09:52:40'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hrant: <BR><i>But we don&#39;t know who/how_many &#34;they&#34; are... So
    what must be your  <BR>primary target -potential subscribers- has less motivation
    than otherwise.</i> <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not goin to say who the users/customers are,
    if they want to do that, that&#39;s up to them. &#34;They&#34; have the same information
    you have right now on whether to subscribe or not. In fact, you went to Rome right?
    You had the opportunity to get a free trial 30 day subscription with a voucher
    that was in the goodie-bag. So you had the chance to see precisely what was there,
    given by me to you. <BR> <BR>You chose not to take that opportunity - not my problem.
    <BR> <BR>And Luc is not on any &#34;blacklist&#34; that I run or know of - why
    not ask him yourself? <BR> <BR>Tanya/Gerald - your call, I&#39;m not trying to
    sell anything to you, if you want it, there it is, if you don&#39;t then don&#39;t.
    But one thing I can guarantee is that there&#39;s stuff at Fontzone that isn&#39;t
    available anywhere else on the web - likewise there&#39;s stuff at Luc&#39;s site,
    MS typography and Typophile that isn&#39;t available else where. <BR> <BR>As to
    seeing what you&#39;re going to get, as I pointed out before, go to the site,
    click on the &#34;previews&#34; link and there&#39;s something like 10-12 article
    - these are either the articles in full, or the first few hundred words. <BR>
    <BR>Additionally, as also pointed out, use the search functionality at the site,
    browse throught the listings &#40;tip, anything with a &#34;folder&#34; icon next
    to it you can see view, anything in the previews section you can view&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>At the end of the day we charge for content - to pay the authors of that content.
    If you don&#39;t want to contribute to that scheme then that&#39;s your choice
    and I see no point in arguing against that. <BR> <BR>Right now on the web you&#39;ve
    got a lot of content that&#39;s free one way or the other - I don&#39;t have a
    problem with that either, that&#39;s the choice of the authors. <BR> <BR>But one
    thing Fontzone certainly isn&#39;t is a &#34;links&#34; listing - the only simple
    link service you&#39;ll find is in the &#34;webfeed&#34; section, which is also
    &#34;free&#34; to use. Each and every article link on the site has a minimum 100
    words behind it &#40;the philosophy here is that if we can&#39;t write 100 words
    about it then it&#39;s just a &#34;link&#34; and we put it in the webfeed&#41;,
    the reality is that news articles are typically 3-400 words, and features are
    500-5,000&#43; words. <BR> <BR>Essentially, I don&#39;t have a problem with any
    criticism in this thread because the answers to that criticism is on the site
    right now - and have been since January 2002. <BR> <BR>So, if I can help anyone
    see that better, I&#39;m happy to do so, but I&#39;m not going to ask people to
    endorse the site, nor give the names or numbers of subscribers. <BR> <BR>Perhaps
    Jared would let you know what his strategy is on the same subject - I&#39;d be
    surprised if we disagreee by much.'
  created: '2003-02-22 13:52:43'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: I used to visit the Fontzone site once in a while before it <BR>closed down,
    and it seemed nice. But there was less <BR>competition back then. <BR> <BR>Clive,
    how many contributors are responsible for providing <BR>these &#34;1000 pages&#34;
    of content? Also, is there a list of <BR>contributors somewhere? &#40;I haven&#39;t
    visited FZ to check.&#41; <BR>And, are contributors also subscribers? Or do they
    get  <BR>a free subscription? ;&#41; <BR>
  created: '2003-02-22 16:39:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; if they want to do that, that&#39;s up to them. <BR> <BR>Sure, but
    why don&#39;t they? Have you asked them? Wouldn&#39;t that help you out? <BR>
    <BR>&#62; a voucher that was in the goodie-bag. <BR> <BR>Actually, I&#39;m not
    sure, but I don&#39;t think I got that. <BR> <BR>&#62; And Luc is not on any &#34;blacklist&#34;
    that I run or know of <BR> <BR>So who else is not?  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62; I&#39;m
    not trying to sell anything to you <BR> <BR>Sure you are - you put an entry on
    Typophile. <BR>And it would be crazy for you <i>not</i> to try - that&#39;s not
    anybody&#39;s complaint. The problem &#40;well, <i>one</i> problem&#41; is your
    method. <BR> <BR>&#62; to pay the authors of that content. <BR> <BR>You previously
    said they get royalties. How much of the remaining revenue goes to keeping the
    site up, versus to you? I don&#39;t necessarily expect an answer, but -if the
    content of the site is essentially at the same level as it was when it was free,
    as you in fact say- there must be <i>some</i> &#34;justification&#34; for the
    charge besides paying other people... <BR> <BR>&#62; I&#39;d be surprised if we
    disagreee by much. <BR> <BR>You must disagree to a fair extent, because this site
    is free. As for what you get for a Typophile membership, that&#39;s of a totally
    different nature &#40;which includes helping out something you value/believe_in&#41;
    than getting access to non-journalistic news and overly subjective opinions. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-22 17:05:30'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '<i>Sure, but why don&#39;t they? Have you asked them? Wouldn&#39;t that help
    you out?  <BR></i> <BR> <BR>Like I said, Johannes loves the site - what difference
    does it make if ... Eric Gill were alive and a subscriber? <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t
    feel it&#39;s appropriate to ask people to endorse the site. It would be illegal
    for me to disclose names of subscribers '
  created: '2003-02-22 18:14:31'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62;Clive, how many contributors are  <BR>&#62;responsible for providing  <BR>&#62;these
    &#34;1000 pages&#34; of content? <BR> <BR>Probably around 35-40, since 1996. <BR>
    <BR>There&#39;s no list of contributors, perhaps I&#39;ll do something about that.'
  created: '2003-02-22 18:20:48'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: There&#39;s no list of contributors, perhaps I&#39;ll do something about that.
    <BR> <BR>I think this is quite needed and would be useful, and an obvious incentive
    to subscribe for those who are curious. Also, the contributors would probably
    appreciate it.
  created: '2003-02-22 18:38:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'CB: <i>I&#39;m not trying to sell anything to you</i> <BR>Hrant: <i>Sure
    you are - you put an entry on Typophile. </i> <BR> <BR>Huh? I&#39;m the one who
    posted the question, Hranter.'
  created: '2003-02-22 22:48:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/561.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/561.html</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/590.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/590.html</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/607.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/607.html</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/629.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/629.html</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/1360.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/1360.html</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/1369.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/1369.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-02-22 23:47:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Oh. Thanks.
  created: '2003-02-23 00:24:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'BTW: <BR><a href="http://home.no.net/fontzone/main.html" target="_blank">http://home.no.net/fontzone/main.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-23 23:00:33'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Gerard, every contributor is acknowledged at the foot of each article anyway,
    along with their contact details. But, as suggested, it may be an idea to put
    up a list. <BR> <BR>As far as Hrant&#39;s links to Fontzone &#34;publicity&#34;
    posts on Typophile go - they&#39;re all in the &#34;news&#34; section by which
    the owners of this site invite news posts. the majority of them are merely reproductions
    of the mail that goes out to the Fontzone mailing list. I think&#39;s it&#39;s
    also worth noting that the latest of these posts was over nine months ago - we
    send out the Fontzone news list about twice a month. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve never posted
    such material in a normal discussion thread. <BR> <BR>As Stephen notes, he started
    this thread, not me - and I have not tried to sell anyone anything in this thread
    - just posted my opinions about a few issues and noted where to get/see more information
    to help him, and anyone else, make a decision about a subscription. <BR> <BR>And,
    thanks for the useful feedback from those who contributed.
  created: '2003-02-24 15:08:58'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'Hrant, your opinion is pretty clear from your posts. But I  <BR>have to say
    this thread is for people who are subscribers.  <BR>Maybe this is your chance
    to <i>listen</i>. <BR> <BR>I really don&#39;t know where you&#39;re going with
    all your posts.  <BR>Are you asserting that it&#39;s inappropriate for FontZone
    to  <BR>promote itself? Or are you asserting that they&#39;re somehow  <BR>less
    trusted because they charge for their content? Maybe  <BR>those folks at Eye and
    CA should give away their mags for  <BR>free too. <BR> <BR>Just like you, I&#39;m
    not a subscriber to FontZone, so I&#39;m going  <BR>to just listen to this thread
    and hopefully get a more  <BR>informed opinion. '
  created: '2003-02-24 18:09:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; this thread is for people who are subscribers. <BR> <BR>Yes, which
    is exactly why I refrained from saying anything at all at first. <BR> <BR>But
    then: <BR>1&#41; After Neil nobody came forward. <BR>2&#41; CB wrote things that
    I feel needed replies. <BR> <BR>&#62; Are you asserting that it&#39;s inappropriate
    for FontZone to promote itself? <BR> <BR>Not at all, and I clarified that already.
    But what I do have a problem with is the implication that starting to charge for
    it has nothing to do with making a profit: <BR> <BR>&#34;So why now make a charge?
    Because we want to encourage fresh writing and publishing projects - and reward
    the contributors of that content.&#34; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-24 18:50:23'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'It may take a while for me to get around to posting a list of contributors,
    but a quick one would run something like: <BR> <BR>John Hudson <BR>Thomas Phinney
    <BR>Erik van Blokland <BR>Jack Yan <BR>Brian Sooy <BR>Karen Parry <BR>Jurgen Siebert
    <BR>John Downer <BR>Joe Gillespie <BR>Ian Styles <BR>Peter Bain <BR>&#34;ATypI&#34;
    <BR>Joachim Muller-Lance <BR>Joel Breckinridge <BR> <BR>I forgot about this, but
    there&#39;s a couple of author profiles here: <a href="http://www.fontzone.com/zine/features/fz33959.arch/"
    target="_blank">http://www.fontzone.com/zine/features/fz33959.arch/</a> <BR> <BR>If
    you look in the Features section some of the author&#39;s names are actually mentioned
    in the sub-heads. <BR> <BR>Additionally within the ATypI conference coverage for
    Reading and Lyon there are lots of unattributed snippets/short articles by Simon
    Daniels, Stuart Bailey, Mark Barratt, Peter Fraterdeus and many others.'
  created: '2003-02-24 18:52:22'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hrant, that&#39;s a really easy one, if I understand your statement correctly:
    <BR> <BR>Charging for Fontzone really does have nothing to do with making a profit.
    It&#39;s not quite a wholly philanthropic effort, but the underlying reason for
    its existance, as I think I&#39;ve previously stated, is to create an archive.
    <BR> <BR>There are many easier ways to make a profit. If you think otherwise I
    await in anticipation for the launch of your own online venture.'
  created: '2003-02-24 18:58:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: That&#39;s a nice list of people who really know stuff. Cool.  <BR>Where are
    your subscribers? Would you say few of  <BR>them frequent Typophile? I&#39;m surprised
    not a single  <BR>current subscriber has posted. I hope we haven&#39;t  <BR>scared
    them off.
  created: '2003-02-24 19:02:41'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Stephen, no idea why subscribers aren&#39;t posting to the thread - but I
    don&#39;t think badly of them for not doing so. A positive comment would be seen
    to be an endorsement, they may be embarrassed by a negative comment. <BR> <BR>I
    think the choice is their&#39;s and I&#39;m not going to pressurise anyone either
    way. Certainly some of them do post to Typophile on occasion. <BR> <BR>The subscriber
    base is about 95% European Union/North America, with about a 50/50 split between
    the two. The remainder are in Central Europe, South America and the Middle East/Western
    Asia.
  created: '2003-02-24 19:13:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; There are many easier ways to make a profit. <BR> <BR>But of course
    any normal human being bases his money-making on a number of factors, not just
    net profits; this includes interests &#40;like type, in your case?&#41;, and social
    acceptance &#40;like not getting into prostitution&#41;. Otherwise culture would
    be dying even faster than it is now. <BR> <BR>&#62; in anticipation for the launch
    of your own online venture. <BR> <BR>For more than three years now there&#39;s
    been no decent way to make money on-line &#40;at least not directly&#41; for individuals
    like you and me. As I&#39;m sure you&#39;re realizing... <BR> <BR>BTW, my site
    generates a lot of traffic, even though it changes very slowly: I get about twice
    as many visits as JPF&#39;s site, it seems - and his site is full of nice things.
    I guess now I just need a good library a Latin fonts...  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;
    they may be embarrassed by a negative comment. <BR> <BR>That would only make sense
    if they were inarticulate - which I doubt. <BR> <BR>Anyway, I still don&#39;t
    understand why they don&#39;t put any endorsements on your site &#40;where people
    like me can&#39;t even reply&#41;. But thanks for the contributors&#39; list -
    I assume you&#39;ll put that on your site too, right? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-24 20:01:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; author profiles <BR> <BR>What&#39;s the reason these are accessible
    only to subscribers? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-24 20:10:32'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: I am a subscriber to Fontzone, and it is easily worth the 20 pounds. There
    are a number of important articles there... especially some material about the
    more obscure CJK technologies and products. FontZone also gets news of certain
    font releases well before the public and the rest of the online type community.
    I will definitely continue my subscription &#40;...which I believe may be running
    out soon... Clive?&#41; <BR> <BR>Hrant has antagonized Clive for as long as I
    can remember. I&#39;m not sure why, other than perhaps that Clive has little patience
    for pirates, which is fine by me. He&#39;s a good writer, he has lots of well-informed
    opinions, and I&#39;m glad to know him.
  created: '2003-02-24 20:47:37'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hrant: <BR>&#62;For more than three years now there&#39;s been no  <BR>&#62;decent
    way to make money on-line &#40;at least not  <BR>&#62;directly&#41; for individuals
    like you and me. As I&#39;m sure  <BR>&#62;you&#39;re realizing... <BR> <BR>Actually
    I&#39;d disagree. <BR> <BR>&#62;Anyway, I still don&#39;t understand why they
    don&#39;t  <BR>&#62;put any endorsements on your site &#40;where  <BR>&#62;people
    like me can&#39;t even reply&#41;. <BR> <BR>Perhaps they, like me, think it&#39;s
    inappropriate. No one gets to reply to articles directly - if you want to chat
    about things there&#39;s plenty of opportunity at Typophile. I suppose that if
    I saw a need for it I would put up a reader&#39;s letters section - but so far
    it doesn&#39;t seem to serve any purpose. <BR> <BR>&#62;But thanks for  <BR>&#62;the
    contributors&#39; list - I assume you&#39;ll put that on your site too, right?
    <BR> <BR>At some point, but probably not within the next couple of days. <BR>
    <BR>&#62;What&#39;s the reason these are accessible only  <BR>&#62;to subscribers?
    <BR> <BR>Hmm, actually I didn&#39;t realise that they were - I&#39;ll take a look
    at it... ok, that&#39;s &#34;fixed&#34;, you may have to refresh your browser
    since the URLs from the profiles page have changed. <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-24 20:48:09'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Whoops, John now I&#39;m embarrased :-&#41; <BR> <BR>As to the CJK stuff John
    mentions, most of that&#39;s down to Joel Breckinridge who&#39;s resident in Japan,
    and really does know what he&#39;s talking about. <BR> <BR>John&#39;s sub... nope,
    you&#39;re ok through to about the fourth week of May, you&#39;ll get an email
    when it gets closer to needing a renewal.
  created: '2003-02-24 20:57:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Hrant has antagonized Clive for as long as I can remember. <BR> <BR>Actually,
    I make constant efforts to mend the relationship, but I suspect that doesn&#39;t
    serve his agenda. I just can&#39;t stand bullshit, especially in public. So I
    think it&#39;s the other way around, especially when you take into account all
    the anonymous attacks launched against me here. Are you looking the other way,
    perhaps? <BR> <BR>It all started maybe 4 years ago, on the OpenType list: I got
    tired of his rabid fanaticism, and stated that FontZone suffered from a lack of
    journalistic integrity. Instead of taking good advice, he promptly closed FontZone
    and dug a deeper trench. I just hope he&#39;s washing his hair every day. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; Clive has little patience for pirates <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a difference
    between having little patience and suffering from Downer Syndrome. Lumping me
    with people like Apostrophe can only come back to bite you. Please don&#39;t tell
    me you need treatment as well - I hope you simply don&#39;t know the real story.
    <BR> <BR>I fight piracy -not least in public- more than any of you. Just yesterday
    I alerted Emigre about a font way too close to one of theirs, from a major reputable
    font house. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>&#62; it&#39;s inappropriate. <BR> <BR>I fail
    to see how. I mean, at least &#42;one&#42; of them should be willing, right? Like
    what about one of the three Johns? This one here is willing to do it on Typophile,
    so he must be willing to put something on the FZ site as well. Come on, get to
    it! If I were a contributor&#42; I would complain that you&#39;re not doing enough
    for my 25%. <BR> <BR>&#42; Which even in an ideal world I would avoid: I don&#39;t
    like writing for an audience limited by affluence. BTW, you should also consider
    lowering your rate for poorer world citizens, like ATypI just did. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-02-24 21:11:25'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Ok, I&#39;m out of here - just for the record pretty much anything Hrant says
    is contradicted by the facts. But as usual, that&#39;s never going to stop him.
  created: '2003-02-24 21:34:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Yes, everybody should trust an anonymous lycanthrope instead. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-02-24 21:41:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Oh, you kids!
  created: '2003-02-24 21:51:38'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#40;Hrant&#41; <BR>&#62;  I just hope he&#39;s washing his hair every day.  <BR>  <BR>Hrant,
    I do have a lot of time for you, but &#42;please&#42; cut the playground digs.
    It doesn&#39;t become you...'
  created: '2003-02-25 12:02:19'
- author:
    name: schaffs
  body: Well, this thread has gone on for so long now, <BR>that I have now got a more
    informed opinion of <BR>Fontzone value, like someone mentioned earlier <BR>FontZone
    and TypoPhile both have a place and I <BR>for one am very grateful for their existence.  But
    compared to Typophile&#39;s free membership I would have to say that FontZone
    isn&#39;t VFM,  <BR>but on the other hand I don&#39;t begrudge paying the $20
    fee, it&#39;s not going to break the bank at the end of the day.
  created: '2003-02-25 13:12:54'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: 'The thing is, imvho, that I personally am not interested in paying for forum
    or for articles or news, even in this specialized field. This commercial approach
    works against what the net was originally about, back when it still was more BBS
    than WWW - global communication. I think a forum such as this or many others is
    something that CAN work for free... Serverspace is cheap and the PHP software
    is available as freewarem, after all. If I had to pay 20 $ for a bulletin board
    and a few articles, man... the stuff had better be DAMN good, seeing that there
    is so many brillant free stuff on design available on the net. I wouldn&#39;t
    mind paying if there was the option of regular downloads of exclusive font designs
    - like the critique fonts we see here, only as PS or TTF for download - and stuff
    like that, but other than that, I doubt that it&#39;ll work long-range. I have
    seen similar approaches in regard to comic book boards, and they all failed, because
    you can get similar or even the same kind of info for free elsewhere :-&#41;. '
  created: '2003-02-25 13:32:15'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: free php and cheap server never make the quality of the content. <BR>There
    is room for many different kind of typographic publishing because of the web,
    that&#39;s it. <BR> <BR><i>current subscriber of FZ, future subcriber of Typophile
    &#40;after 100 post if I understood?&#41;, regular visitor of typographi.ca, typographer,
    daidala, J D Berry page, ATypI news, etc.</i>
  created: '2003-02-25 14:54:14'
- author:
    name: cph
    picture: 110350
  body: Server space is cheap; bandwidth is <i>very</i> expensive.
  created: '2003-02-25 18:00:41'
- author:
    name: cattie
    picture: 110324
  body: 'I&#39;m from &#34;below 14,500 limit&#34; country and I&#39;m a fontzone
    subscriber. This year I extended my subscription to another year. <BR> <BR>But
    some suggestions for fontzone: <BR>- more long articles &#40;evaluation, summarization&#41;
    <BR>- some kind of evaluation of articles and maybe discussion'
  created: '2003-02-25 22:55:27'
date: '2003-02-12 20:18:15'
node_type: forum
title: The Value of FontZone

---
