---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/test_4714.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s a little
  something I\u2019m working on at the moment. It is indented for use in a magazine
  set at 9.5 pt size, something that influences the large x-height. Designing a good
  text face is hard work. I have not designed a serif before, so I guess some of you\u2019ll
  spot a lot of beginners mistakes.\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s a little bit of both calligraphic
  and typographic thinking here, I\u2019ve tried to tone down the former from a previous
  iteration after some good advice, but it is important to me that the face retains
  it\u2019s seriousness (an editorial voice) in the midst of the humanist proportions
  and soft details.\r\nI love that the brushyness is implied with straight edges,
  and occasional \u201Cflairs\u201D (A, N, t). I also think the continious stroke,
  instead of detached serif and bowl (or stroke), in letters like D, B, R, E, F. The
  more typographic stuff can be seen in the modularity of shapes, the Dwiggins-esque
  alignment of serif and contour in n- and p-shapes, how top serifs and crossbars
  in E/F align, the head of f with it\u2019s crossbar etc. \r\n\r\nSo, my worries
  are: \r\nA: this truly sucks\r\nB: this is too icky-trendy\r\n\r\nI am planning
  a display cut, but the nature of the n-shape might make a higher contrast hard to
  get right. Not sure how that\u2019ll play out, but in any case I gotta get the text
  cut right first. There\u2019s also some italic sketches, but it haven\u2019t really
  found it\u2019s voice yet. The spacing is rudimentary, to say the least.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
  here to learn, so any advice you can bring to the table is welcome!\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nFull
  scanned page from laserprint. See comments below.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.frodehelland.com/laserprint_20apr2341.jpeg\">laserprint_20apr2341.jpg</a>"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, it can't be trendy because that trend was a decade ago.  :-)\r\n\r\nIt's
    not my cup of Lapsang Souchong, but It Does Not Suck. To me it looks like a personal
    interpretation of what might be called the \"Lexicon genre\". And it seems quite
    personal since some of the \"stroke\" distribution is subtly funky (a good thing).\r\n\r\nBTW,
    your target size seems to be right on, although the spacing is slightly loose
    (which does however depend on the repro conditions, since this is for a specific
    application).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-14 16:58:53'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Haha. Not trendy, not sucky. That\u2019s good. By the Lexicon genre I guess
    you mean the spiky n serifs an thin joins? I have to test the colour in print,
    but I have some supporting faces to match it with weight-wise.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-14 18:04:06'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "It looks nice so far. Maybe it's just the pixel rendering (and it might look
    better at your intended size), but I think the bottom right of a, top right of
    the bowl on b, and top right of the loop on g might be a hair too dark.\r\n\r\nI
    think you're right on with the light joins\u2014I had originally thought to give
    my Hemlock some very light joins on a few letters, but someone pointed it out
    and I darkened them. After doing some proofs, I found that my original instincts
    were correct (and that I need to working on spacing)."
  created: '2012-04-14 18:35:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Anybody interested in the thin join philosophy should pay attention to Gerard
    Unger.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-14 18:44:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typo_5278.png]\r\n\r\nBrian: The weight
    rotation is, in addition to the pen influence, a byproduct of the \u201Ctypographic\u201D
    part. See the red lines! I\u2019ve tried not to make this 100% literally. I too
    think g is too heavy, but I\u2019m not sure about bdpq theoretically although
    they might appear slightly darker then n.\r\n\r\nHrant: I will!"
  created: '2012-04-14 22:28:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like this!\r\nApostrophe/comma/quotations marks are too light (have they
    been designed yet?)\r\nI like the way the top of /G/ emulates /E/F/. But I think
    that openness allows you to raise the crossbar a little higher than you have it
    here (looks low compared to /e/'s crossbar in \"Gregor\", for example).\r\nThe
    figures are beautiful! /8/ appears too dark, and I wonder if you could tone down
    /2/'s quirkiness without losing its charm. \r\nYour /y/ descender looks like it
    reaches under quite a bit. How does it set after /g/?\r\nMy eye catches a bit
    on the wiggly asymmetricality of the top of /m/.\r\nDoes the ramp-like, slanting
    top of /a/ curl too acutely at the top right?\r\nTerminal of arm of /r/ could
    use more weight."
  created: '2012-04-15 00:42:25'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Looks Awesome!\r\n\r\n- Not sure about the brush-like bottom of the 3 and
    5. They can be more like the 'c', 'f', 'y'.\r\n- Maybe you are creating a very
    dark spot in the 'd' when the upper part of the bowl joins the stem , also applies
    to the lower join in the 'p'. In 'b' and 'q' looks nice however.\r\n- 'w' is a
    little to expanded maybe?\r\n- 'B' the lower bowl looks a little weird.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-15 01:19:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/edits_3702.png]\r\nI made an effort to
    harmonize p- and n-shapes. Does the top of b and p still appear heavier then the
    rest?\r\n\r\nAlso, new a (less contrast NW) and g. I think that new /a/ really
    had a huge impact in text:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/text_6315.png]"
  created: '2012-04-15 08:22:58'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I like the new /g/ but its ear could be more in line of the overall feeling,
    eg more of an upward whoosh\u2026 The bowl of the /a/ could be a bit wider to
    balance it with the upper part. /s/ is need of some widening, I think (the /se/
    combo is unbalanced).\r\n\r\nI like it, but am not convinced if it is a worthy
    addition to the spectrum of modern typefaces\u2026"
  created: '2012-04-15 13:06:12'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Thanks Bert. What about this design makes you think it\u2019s not a worthy
    addition?"
  created: '2012-04-15 13:41:43'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Btw, claiming something \u201Cnot worthy\u201D is not very constructive.
    Keep in mind this is my first serif.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sega_4208.png]\r\ns/g/a
    adjusted after your comments. (perhaps not enough on g?)"
  created: '2012-04-15 13:53:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Minor: I would make the bottom-left of the counter of the \"b\" fully adnate.\r\n\r\nBert,
    it might not be ground-breaking, but remember that this is for a client... something
    that rarely leads to real cultural progress. And for a first serif effort it seems
    pretty accomplished.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-15 14:19:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "It's very well thought out with some clever details and nice proportions.
    Reminds me more of Trinite than Lexicon. I'd personally suggest the very sharp
    outstrokes could be bevelled (e.g. on the lowercase /e/ and /t/) but I guess you're
    liking it really spiky! Also, have you tested the contrast on the actual stock
    intended? It looks as though overall it might be rather shiny, maybe more like
    a display cut??\r\n\r\nRounds/diagonals seem a bit darker than long straights.
    Look at /c/, /o/ or /v/ next to /l/ or /h/. \r\n\r\n/a/ I'd trim a little off
    the outstroke, at the notch, so the spur starts a little narrower than the main
    stroke width. I think Lexicon does that, and yours seems a little like the weight
    is pulling the stroke down rather than flowing out gently.\r\n\r\n/b/ counter
    at bottom left looks slightly unresolved? Can't quite tell what the tool is doing,
    it's continuous but suddenly changing rotation? Or perhaps the pen angle round
    the bottom left is just too steep?\r\n\r\n/u/ I'm seeing some boning on the left
    stem.\r\n\r\n/t/ Short?\r\n\r\nGreat to see your skill, Frode! I think Gerard
    would approve :^)"
  created: '2012-04-15 16:45:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Apart from all the tiny fixes I\u2019m doing continously, I did the following:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fixes_4313.jpg]\r\n\r\nBendy:
    \r\n\u2022 /u/ I'm seeing some boning on the left stem. \r\n\u2022 /a/ I'd trim
    a little off the outstroke, at the notch, so the spur starts a little narrower
    than the main stroke width.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure if I understand these.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    /t/ Short?\r\nIn what direction?"
  created: '2012-04-15 21:35:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Yes, the ascenders are also taller.
  created: '2012-04-15 21:37:20'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "More on /g/ please\u2026 My suggestion re its ear: a nice dip and then an
    upturn.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What about this design makes you think it\u2019s not
    a worthy addition?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI may have overshot by using that word
    \u2014 what I meant is that it is not *very* original. As others have stated it
    is reminiscent of Bram de Does\u2019 work.\r\n\r\nThe fact that this is your first
    serif blows my mind \u2014 you must be really talented. Maybe you should just
    pull out all the stops and not mind convention, but go for conviction (you surely
    must have ideas about what a serif should \u2018be\u2019)."
  created: '2012-04-15 21:54:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Lexicon's /a/ below yours:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lexicon
    a_4720.jpg]\r\nI've observed this trick in a number of designs. It's as though
    the sideways flick of the tail starts above the join.\r\n\r\nRe the /u/, it's
    an illusion to do with the transition from curve to straight. The straight section
    looks as though it's bending right in the middle (blue dots show where I see it
    waisting inwards). Actually I think a good solution might be to make that stem
    curve ever so slightly all the way through, and do away with the straight sections.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Frode
    u_4664.jpg]\r\n\r\n/t/ short in the height department?\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-15 22:13:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Bert:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_4436.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-15 22:21:10'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Frode: a bit more enthusiastic, like a whippet\u2019s tail! With a slight
    curl at the base. \r\nI like the overhang of the lower bowl. "
  created: '2012-04-15 22:24:13'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Bendy: \r\nNot sure how well that works for the a, but the u turned out much
    better.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/au_6486.png]"
  created: '2012-04-15 22:24:30'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, that's what I meant for the /a/. Also, I'd also pull the (righthand)
    handle coming out of that node a bit further to the right. There seems to be too
    much colour down there.\r\n\r\nI'd do the same with the inner curve of the /u/.
    The straight section still creates a distortion to my eye."
  created: '2012-04-15 22:32:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm starting to see 10 pt.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-15 22:32:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Bendy: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/uga_4959.png]\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    sure you are, Hrant, but I\u2019ve got an end product to consider.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    Bert: It\u2019s very likely that I\u2019m unconsciously inspired by de Does. (A
    true master.) I see the similarities (joins and serifs), and I also see quite
    a bit of another TEFF face in here: F. Smeijers <em>Renard</em> \u2014 in the
    weight rotation. Perhaps there are some changes I can do to steer clear, allowing
    me to focus on making this as good as possible? I don\u2019t yet have a clear
    <em>vision</em> of all the stylistic details. I don\u2019t know nearly enough
    about type yet. What I do know is the purpose it needs to fulfill in the end and
    the general feel I\u2019m after, and this has informed my decisions so far."
  created: '2012-04-15 22:48:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "About the joins: With ink gain, would not details like these just \u201Cfill
    in\u201D in small sizes? I was thinking a display variant in proportions and spacing,
    more than in contrast.\r\n\r\n I will make test prints on the stock we choose
    -- in fact I probably get to choose the stock."
  created: '2012-04-15 22:51:03'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'And Ourtype has one too: Lirico.'
  created: '2012-04-15 22:59:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I attached a new PDF to the first post: <em>man16apr0008.pdf</em>.\r\n\r\nSpacing
    is somewhat refined -- at least better than the previous version."
  created: '2012-04-15 23:10:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Good heavens, it's looking really splendid! \r\n\r\nBrackets, I'd say, would
    do better to be heavier and longer. My preference is for such things to nicely
    encompass whatever may come inside, and I tend to make them extend at least to
    the ascenders. Quotes could go up to align at the same height.\r\n\r\nI like the
    way you're dealing with the spacing of the caps, it'll be interesting to see if
    that works.\r\n\r\nThere's a glitch on the upper side of the tail of the /R/.\r\n\r\n/W/
    could be wider.\r\n\r\nDagger and double dagger could have some of that nice thinning
    at the joins, at least on the horizontal strokes, if not throughout.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-15 23:43:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/R_6262.png]\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve actually
    been working on a new R. The previous one was quite uninspired."
  created: '2012-04-15 23:56:18'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>Dagger and double dagger could have some of that nice thinning at the
    joins, at least on the horizontal strokes, if not throughout.</em>\r\n\r\nIf so,
    would I not stray too far from the calligraphic? I mean, that would be a theoretical
    form -- nothing a pen could possibly make."
  created: '2012-04-15 23:59:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/reduced_6595.png] The R in context.'
  created: '2012-04-16 00:01:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Stray from the calligraphic?\r\n\r\nThink of it as rotation.\r\n\r\nA few
    other observations:\r\n\r\nSerif on /J/ needs to be more on the left, the same
    thing you've done with /f/.\r\n\r\nLeft stroke of /W/ may be slightly dark. Left
    of /Y/ may be too light.\r\n\r\nI prefer the direction of the previous /R/, FWIW."
  created: '2012-04-16 00:08:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>I prefer the direction of the previous /R/, FWIW.</em>\r\nBut that wasn\u2019t
    even an idea :) Anyway -- my ego prevails until it starts sticking out to my eyes."
  created: '2012-04-16 00:19:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, what I meant is you might find yourself having to shorten the extenders.\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't want them to fill in, you have to make a stencil font. :-)  Which is
    actually not as comical as it might sound, since Pierro De Macchi once made a
    phone directory font like that (called Nomina).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-16 00:24:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think the tail of the /Q/ is too subtle! ;-)\r\n\r\nAre the thins of /O/
    intentionally thick relative to others?\r\n\r\nSerif at top right of /N/ goes
    too far over left. I think a balanced shape like that at the same spot in /U/
    would work better.\r\n\r\nYes, be more ambitious with the daggers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-16 01:20:32'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>Serif at top right of /N/ goes too far over left. I think a balanced
    shape like that at the same spot in /U/ would work better.</em>\r\nI think I need
    some \u201Cfilling in\u201D here, but perhaps not so much.\r\n\r\n<em>Are the
    thins of /O/ intentionally thick relative to others?</em>\r\nNot sure if I understand.
    It is comparable to similar forms (C, U, G, D), but thicker than S."
  created: '2012-04-16 01:34:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Bert: \r\n<em>The fact that this is your first serif blows my mind \u2014
    you must be really talented.</em>\r\nI don\u2019t think I have much talent --
    just look at my history of posts here. Plenty of rubbish, I\u2019ll be the first
    to admit. I\u2019m getting good advice from skilled professionals. Other than
    that it\u2019s just hard work.\r\n\r\n<em>like a whippet\u2019s tail</em>\r\nI\u2019ll
    keep what I have for now. I think I\u2019m on to something."
  created: '2012-04-16 01:39:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "About that subtle Q tail: Better?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Q-01_4244.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-16 17:21:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Much better! :-)
  created: '2012-04-16 18:00:27'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Impressive. First off, study Lexicon. The more I study it, the more I see
    the brilliance of it. It's also really helping me with my own serif typeface,
    although I'm wary of getting to close to the design of Lexicon. A few notes:\r\n\r\n-
    The 'flatness' of your bowls is a bit exagerated, IMO. This causes a few problems:
    /c and e/ fall backwards, The white notch between the bowl and the stem on the
    top of /m n p and alikes/ is very small. I'm afraid it might completely disappear
    when printed with a lower quality of paper/ink/printer. The top of the stem, tilting
    to the right, only makes this worse. De Does cheated his way out of this problem
    by making the top of the stem extend (yes, optically) above the shoulder. It looks
    fine in text, but it's anoying at display size.\r\n- The serifs on your uppercase
    could be wider/larger. They're a bit fragile now.\r\n- The top vertical serif
    of E looks really small next to Z.\r\n- Top of A looks a bit weak. Check Lexicon's
    A.\r\n- Second stroke in W and /w/ looks too thin.\r\n- I would like to see a
    version where the top serif on /i/ is shorter. About half its current length,
    I'd say. Keep the top serifs on ascenders the same, though.\r\n- I get the system,
    but that serif on the very left on /v and alikes/ looks too long.\r\n- The top
    counter of /a/ is quite small compared to the very open counter of /e, for example/.
    Perhaps make the terminal shorter.\r\n- The bowl of /a/ has a very horizontal
    flow, compared the the diagonality of the top of /a/.\r\n- Terminals are inconsistent.
    Try to get /f c a r y/ to work together a bit closer.\r\n- /r/ looks a lot like
    /n/. I would make it join the stem at a much lower point.\r\n- /g/ is too thin
    on the top right (just right of the very top). \r\n- /v/ is wide.\r\n- That little
    outward turn on the bottom right of N looks odd.\r\n\r\nIt's a very original and
    functional typeface as it is. As always, take my comments with some salt. You
    know your shit better than I do ;-) Cheers! jasper\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-18 15:27:02'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Jasper, \r\n\r\nApologies for the delay. You make some good observations,
    especially concering the n/p shapes. I made a testprint on the best laser printer
    I could get hold of, which ws admittedly not very good. The magazine is printed
    offset, but I should expect some ink spread I presume.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/testprint_4960.png]\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    definitely seeing some clogging in the joins. I think a better way to adress this
    problem is lowering the connection -- and thus breaking the \u201Crule\u201D at
    text sizes.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t agree with all your stylistic remarks, and I would
    very much like to stear clear of de Does, obviously :) I think some of those things
    you are trying to correct in your design are exactly what gives Lexicon it\u2019s
    character! It\u2019s a design so free of the typical digital straight shapes.
    I\u2019ll look into the rest of the comments as soon as possible.\r\n\r\nThe full
    scanned page (with some updated shapes) linked here and in the first post.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.frodehelland.com/laserprint_20apr2341.jpeg\">laserprint_20apr2341.jpg</a>"
  created: '2012-04-20 22:43:47'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I don't expect you to agree with me on all points. I merely gave you my thoughts
    :-)\r\nThought: Find a printer with a good laserprinter if you want to make this
    thing work. Designing a text font without testing properly seems an impossible
    job to me.\r\n\r\nOn my work vs. Lexicon: The line between character and quirk
    will always be thin. Lexicon is brilliant indeed, but after having seen it in
    intensive use every day in the NRC Handelsblad, some things about it just anoy
    me."
  created: '2012-04-21 14:52:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "And uc vertical serifs:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ezfit_5400.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-22 23:49:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/strok_4499.jpg]\r\n\r\nJasper. Some adjustments.
    Not all after your taste. A brand new /a/: wider, more open; ditto r; took some
    weight of the outer curve to open the tightest joins; terminals more uniform &
    exaggerated /A/."
  created: '2012-04-22 23:50:14'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: All improvements!
  created: '2012-04-23 16:37:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cursive_6508.png]\r\nPDF (with text samples
    as well) in the first post. The caps are rough, and I guess the rest is too --
    more intentional, but not necessarily well executed. Spacing is a mess! "
  created: '2012-06-13 00:30:43'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: A small nit-pick that has nothing to do with the font (which I really like!)
    - You have a pdf named 'Cursive'.  Cursive implies connected handwriting script
    - what we used to learn in grade school! Internally you properly call it italics.
  created: '2012-06-13 02:14:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Very promising. This seems quite an assured design, despite spacing, very
    good!\r\n\r\nI see a potential inconsistency with the outstrokes of /t/ vs /i/
    for example. \r\n\r\nI like the way the crossbars of /f/ and /t/ seem to be aiming
    downwards; I've never been able to get that to work.\r\n\r\nNot convinced about
    the /R/.\r\n\r\nStem of /y/ may be too dark: compare with /f/.\r\n\r\nNot sure
    I agree with HVB about the word 'cursive'. To me 'italics' is much more typographic
    than 'cursive', which implies more written forms. I've not heard of 'cursive'
    implying connected letterforms before.\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-13 02:31:50'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "@Bendy - \"italics\" is much more typographic than \"cursive\". Absolutely
    - exactly what I was saying (assuming that by 'written' you mean 'hand-written'.\r\nCursive
    most definitely means connected. Every definition includes wording similar to
    this:  \"Having the successive letters joined together: cursive writing; a cursive
    style of type.\""
  created: '2012-06-13 04:20:56'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '"Kursiv" is simply the Norwegian word for italic.'
  created: '2012-06-13 08:52:50'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: Just proving that concepts DO get lost in translation - or when imported from
    one language to another.
  created: '2012-06-13 14:20:09'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Let\u2019s not discuss this here. I\u2019m posting because I hoped you\u2019d
    spot my amateur <em>drawing</em> errors -- this being my first serious venture
    into the world of serifs."
  created: '2012-06-13 14:34:24'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "While I'm not as tuned in to the delicate points noted by others here, I
    do find that when glancing at the overall color of your sample page, the cross-bar
    on the 'e' looks very weak in comparison with the rest of the typeface. The up-slope
    portion of the  'a' is similarly light, but because it's quite short it looks
    fine.\r\n- Herb"
  created: '2012-06-13 15:31:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Cursive most definitely means connected. Every definition includes
    wording similar to this: \"Having the successive letters joined together: cursive
    writing; a cursive style of type.\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo, I disagree. \"Cursive\"
    can refer to letters with \"running\" structure that do not join with each other.
    \r\nhttp://www.typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics&id2=&id3=&id4=&id5=&idpic=07"
  created: '2012-06-13 15:58:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: The cursive /f/ looks kind of floppy to me - any way to introduce a bit more
    tension in it?
  created: '2012-06-13 16:01:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letters_4751.png]\r\nBetter?"
  created: '2012-06-13 16:10:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "On second thought:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alfons_6415.png]\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-13 16:16:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Yes to that last one. It's maybe a hair too skinny at about the baseline level
    now, but it's much more interesting and fitting now.
  created: '2012-06-13 17:00:50'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "  @Craig    OK, Typographic jargon (like so many jargons) has taken a perfectly
    descriptive adjective [cursive] and bastardized it for its own use. This isn't
    the forum to get into some of the other terms and linguistic ambiguities that
    are associated with typographic jargon - such as the two antipodal meanings of
    'gothic'.\r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2012-06-13 17:01:51'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "R is brilliant. What appened to the upper counter of B?\r\n\r\nPay a little
    more attention to stroke modulation and contrast, I'd say. The top of the bowl
    of /p/ isn't working yet, for example (especially next to /q/). The stroke that
    goes into the stem is much thicker in q than it is in p. The thin strokes in /x/
    are even thinner. \r\n\r\nThe top right stroke on the /x/ needs to move a little
    to the left for it to look like a continuous stroke in text. \r\n\r\n/r/ perhaps
    a bit exagerated?\r\n\r\nBottom of stems in /n/ (left) and /q/ and /q/ look a
    bit helpless. Perhaps a slight angle would help.\r\n\r\nThe top counter of /k/
    seems quite large.\r\n\r\nNot sure about the figures...\r\n\r\nNice work!\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-16 10:05:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like how sprightly this is!\r\n\r\nBTW, I don't think \"cursive\" needs
    to be connected (at least not in type terminology). For one thing it nicely leaves
    room for a proper (non-chirographic) Italic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-27 23:33:52'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Thanks Hrant. I\u2019m starting to think the italics need slightly different
    joins. The thin part gets too long, compared to the roman. There are other issues,
    obviously, but this is the main structural thing. In any case, I\u2019m finishing
    up a magazine typeset in the face right now. (Very exciting.) I\u2019ll post some
    pics if it turns out good."
  created: '2012-06-28 08:18:35'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: didn't turn out good?
  created: '2012-07-18 12:10:39'
date: '2012-04-14 16:31:54'
title: An unnamed text face

---
