---
author:
  name: zjb1
body: "Hi everyone!\r\n\r\nI've lurked here for years but I think this will be my
  first post. \r\n\r\nI'm a lawyer and I'm about to start a new job search. \r\n\r\nI
  searched the Typophile archives for inspiration. A lot of the discussion seems to
  deal with r\xE9sum\xE9s for designer types, but I suspect a lawyer's r\xE9sum\xE9
  ought to be a bit different.\r\n\r\nThe book Typography for Lawyers by Matthew Butterick
  has had a profound influence on my work in general. In drafting this new version
  of my CV, I've taken a lot of his advice. Butterick includes a sample r\xE9sum\xE9
  in his book, but I've tried to avoid using that as a template. Instead of just aping
  the ideas of the leading law typography guru, I want to come up with something fresh.\r\n\r\nAt
  the same time, I think it's important that my CV not be over-designed. I want the
  document to look professional--even elegant--but definitely not arty. This CV will
  be reviewed by people who are accustomed to working with lawyers, and I want it
  to stand out for the right reasons.\r\n\r\nIf you have any thoughts about my type
  design choices or about the substance of the CV, I'll appreciate hearing them.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nZack\r\n
  \ "
comments:
- author:
    name: jaicknelson
  body: "While there are simply no definate principles, do not forget that virtually
    any successful cv will depend on careful exploration to the wanted write-up in
    addition to focus on successful layout in addition to display.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.attorneysign.com\"
    rel=\"dofollow\" >top attorney</a>"
  created: '2013-07-31 06:16:12'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "I'm not an attorney, but I'd think that while they might like small print
    in contracts, they wouldn't even read a resum\xE9 that needed a magnifying glass.
    My initial impression was that it was too small, probably reduced in order to
    fit everything into two pages.  Can't tell exactly what font you used, or in what
    size, since it's not embedded. If you're submitting your resume as a pdf, I'd
    strongly recommend that you either embed all fonts used or convert to outlines.
    In that way it can be enlarged at will without displaying the jaggies.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as content is concerned, when I was reviewing resum\xE9s I looked for activites
    that pertain to the positions I had available. I also looked for signs of success.
    Phrases like \"involved with\" or \"worked on\" don't carry as much impact as
    phrases such as \"which led to obtaining a $40 million contract\" or \"as a result
    of which I was named Senior Partner\".  People who tailor their CV to the company
    and position they're interested in have a better chance of getting that personal
    interview (which is just about the ONLY thing a resum\xE9 is good for).\r\n\r\n
    - Herb "
  created: '2012-04-22 05:32:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I don't know anything about legal resumes, but I'd avoid having bullet text
    (or any text) run the full width as you do now. You could try a format of 2 columns
    of equal width (similar to the 2-column bullet list in the \"additional coursework\"
    section), or you could try a narrow left column (perhaps about 1/3 the available
    width) holding the subheads and a wider right column (around 2/3 the width) holding
    the text.\r\n\r\nShould the resume have a photo? If so you could make the main
    head flush left (which would be more in keeping with the overall layout than the
    current center alignment) and put your photo to the right of it."
  created: '2012-04-22 06:41:15'
- author:
    name: McBain_v1
  body: "Hi Zack\r\n\r\nFirst off, I am not a typographic expert (hell, I probably
    don\u2019t even qualify as an amateur) so don\u2019t pay too much attention to
    what I say or take it to heart. \r\n\r\nOverall I thought that the document looked
    pretty slick but I did wonder whether, in the <cite>Additional Work Experience</cite>
    section on page 2, you might be better off trying to get the small cap (I am only
    assuming they are small caps - I\u2019ve no way of telling) headings onto a single
    line? This would give you some more space to expand a bit on what you did. Same
    comment could be applied to the <cite>Educational Background</cite> section I
    guess, get yourself more space to brag about what you have achieved rather than
    where you did it.\r\n\r\nIs the font <strong>Equity</strong> by any chance?\r\n\r\nSteve"
  created: '2012-04-22 08:46:00'
- author:
    name: TurtleType
    picture: 123445
  body: "I agree with the two column solution. \r\n\r\nIf you have to use bullets
    maybe find a different shape to use...like a diamond. "
  created: '2012-04-22 09:21:02'
- author:
    name: zjb1
  body: "I really appreciate all your advice. \r\n\r\nThe font family is Sabon Next.
    I used MS Word to generate the PDF file. How can I make sure I'm embedding the
    fonts correctly? \r\n\r\nI see now that 10 pt type is too small to try to string
    across the width of the page in such long lines. I'll experiment with presenting
    the info in columns as some of you suggested. I think uneven columns might be
    a compelling way to emphasize the key data (the stuff I set in small caps in the
    first version--positions held, degrees, dates, etc.) by separating it from the
    longer narratives.\r\n\r\nI guess I used bullets because I always see them in
    CVs. I'll look into taking the bullets out entirely, or if that doesn't work,
    then at least I can try to find a cooler shape for them.\r\n\r\nAs far as the
    substance, I haven't worked hard enough yet to pare this r\xE9sum\xE9 down to
    its most essential information. Version 2 will be leaner and meaner.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your help!\r\n\r\nZack"
  created: '2012-04-22 18:23:31'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "\"How can I make sure I'm embedding the fonts correctly? \"\r\n\r\nI'm not
    familiar with Word 2010, but once you figure out how to untie its 'ribbons', this
    is how it's done in earlier versions:\r\n\r\nTools / Options / Save\r\nClick on
    the box labeled \"Embed TrueType Fonts\"\r\nThis should also work for OpenType
    fonts; I'm not sure about Type 1.\r\n\r\nWhen you generate the PDF, it will inherit
    the embedded fonts as well.\r\n\r\n - Herb\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-22 19:00:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you really must cram things you should use a font that looks large on
    the body (which mostly means a large x-height) so no Sabon... If it's large enough
    you might even be able to go down to 9 point. It won't look \"elegant\" though.
    BTW if you go this route, Equity (besides being too old-fashioned for a r\xE9sum\xE9
    I think) isn't big-looking enough here. Maybe Iowan Old Style? It has very classy
    caps.\r\n\r\nSomething else: There seems to be a nice French angle to your...
    \xEAtre. :-)  Would you consider a typeface with a French vibe, as a \"subtext\"?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    here's a crazy idea: Could you use legal-size paper? :-)  Is there any precedent
    for that? But maybe it would be too mannered.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-22 19:30:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: In addition to being set small (and being small on the body), that font seems
    to have quite small smallcaps (particularly apparent in mixed settings). If you're
    set on the font, would you consider boosting the smallcaps pointsize a touch?
  created: '2012-04-22 19:49:00'
- author:
    name: McBain_v1
  body: "Embedding fonts in Word 2010 is quite easy: on the \"save\" dialogue box
    there should be a button marked \"options\". Click this and you will see that
    it allows you to embed the fonts, either the entire font or just those characters
    that are used in the document.\r\n\r\nI'd go along with what <strong>hrant</strong>
    said about the x-height. Magazine fonts seem to have a good x-height as they are
    often printed at small sizes."
  created: '2012-04-22 21:45:00'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Re: fonts in MS Word, with OpenType CFF fonts, Word will always rasterize
    them. Read what Si_Daniels says:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/72404\r\n\"Okay,
    I heard back from the Office gurus. Word will rasterize rather than embed \"no
    embedding\" fonts and non-TrueType fonts. The fonts in question were OpenType
    CFF. I've given the team a few pointers if they want to address this limitation
    in the future.\"\r\n\r\nMy guess is that this is not much of a problem if a PDF
    is enlarged only slightly for screen reading."
  created: '2012-04-22 23:20:36'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Definitely try to narrow your main text column a bit. But headings can stick
    out beyond the width of this, if it works visually.\r\n\r\nI would say use oldstyle
    numerals throughout.\r\n\r\nBy the way, in posting this for critique, you've done
    at least one thing right. I recently had to wade through some resumes for a position
    for which I was interviewing applicants, and I basically dismissed some of them
    off the bat for having appallingly badly designed resumes. Yours is already much
    better than average."
  created: '2012-04-22 23:27:29'
- author:
    name: zjb1
  body: "Hey everyone!\r\n\r\nI've experimented with your suggestions on how to improve
    my CV. Now I'm back to see what you think of my revisions.\r\n\r\nIn this new
    version, I've tried to make better use of columns and I've taken out the bullets
    in response to your suggestions. I can't figure out how to attach the new version
    down here in this part of the thread--instead the attachment is next to the original
    attachment up at the start of the thread.\r\n\r\nRight now the actual content
    is not exactly what will go in the final version--especially on the first page.
    The content is similar to what I think will go in the final version in terms of
    number of words per sentence and number of sentences. But please understand that
    the first page still has some filler text just to make it easier for you to evaluate
    the document design.\r\n\r\nI think I figured out how to use Word to embed my
    fonts in my PDF correctly. In case the PDF doesn't say it clearly, I'm using different
    weights of Gotham for my headings.\r\n\r\nThe serif type that I'm using is SabonNext
    at 11pt. In some places, I've experimented with SabonNext's true small caps and
    with old style figures, as some of you advocated.\r\n\r\nFor all the sans serif
    type (other than the Gotham headings), I'm using Caspari. I've set the Caspari
    text at either 10 pt (which I find quite legible in narrow columns) or elsewhere
    at 11pt. Again, I'm fooling around with Caspari's separate small caps font and
    the OSFs.\r\n\r\nI hope you Typophiles will review my new document and tell me
    what you like and what you don't. What works? What's confusing? What's inelegant
    or clunky?\r\n\r\nI'll appreciate whatever feedback you provide.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again,\r\nZack\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-02 00:40:05'
- author:
    name: TurtleType
    picture: 123445
  body: "It's looking good. I think Gotham is a good choice for san serif, but I feel
    it conflicts with your Sabon Next type choice. If you're set on using Sabon Next,
    [[http://bonfx.com/|Douglas Bonneville]] has a book/pdf on type combinations.
    He suggests pairing Sabon with either Franklin Gothic, Helvetica, Lucida Sans,
    Monotype Grotesque, Myriad, Stone, Trade Gothic, or Univers. I don't think it's
    the end all but it's a start. \r\n\r\nIt's a design faux pas to put more than
    two type choices (usually a serif and a san serif) in a layout unless, of course,
    you have a good reason. I don't know why you put Caspari in the body text, but
    it has a nice authoritative feel (just as long as you increase the line spacing
    AKA leading).  Type combinations seem to be one of the hardest to learn for a
    designer. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure how much control you have in Word, but you need
    to align the baselines  between the two columns, that will help tighten up the
    layout. \r\n\r\nAlso, think about the heading/pinline/sub-heading areas. Try flipping
    the lighter for the heavier weight and vise versa. Basically, you need to think
    where you want your eyes to go first, second, third, and act accordingly by increasing/decreasing
    the weight, point-size, indents, spacing etc. \r\n\r\nIf you have time find a
    copy of Robin Williams [[http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_ss_i_0_7?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=the+non+designers+design+book&sprefix=the+non%2Caps%2C780|The
    Non-Designer's Design Book]] it's one of my favorite books for providing a clear,
    accessible, run down of layout principles."
  created: '2012-05-02 18:13:19'
- author:
    name: zjb1
  body: "Thanks for your thoughtful advice, TurtleType. I've made changes based on
    your ideas.\r\n\r\nI started using Sabon after Butterick recommended it for lawyers
    on his website a few years ago. It looks great for some papers I might file in
    court, but now I think it's wrong for my CV. Sabon has gravitas--it's elegant
    and graceful and traditional and all that. But the most important feature of the
    typeface I use for my CV has to be legibility. I wouldn't pick Sabon for a road
    atlas or for subway graphics. I don't think I want it in my CV anymore.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure why I chose Gotham. I guess it's because I notice it on movie billboards
    all the time. But that feels like the wrong reason to use it in my CV. \r\n\r\nSo
    now I've switched everything to Absara Sans. I think the effect is kind of profound.
    What do you think of Version 3? Again, I'm focusing on the design issues and not
    so much on the substance yet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-02 21:18:45'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "Good effort. A few suggestions:\r\n\r\nReconsider the relative visual importance
    of the headings vs. the body text. Right now, the headings look more like captions.
    After your name, those headings should be the most prominent features of the page.
    People reading your r\xE9sum\xE9 want to establish a few facts quickly \u2014\_did
    he go to good schools? Has he been employed at good firms? Make it easy to figure
    that out. Also, to that end, I would start the name of your employers & schools
    on the left edge.\r\n\r\nThe hanging indents don\u2019t add anything. If you need
    to make paragraphs more distinct, reduce the line spacing of the body text and
    increase the space between them. (I notice that the lines in each column align
    vertically, which is a nice detail)\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t bury the lead. I'm not a
    fan of bland \u201Cobjective statements\u201D like \u201CLooking for a dynamic,
    challenging position driving outcomes for clients.\u201D Still, it\u2019s never
    a bad idea to summarize who you are and what you want, because you have about
    three seconds before the hiring partner moves to the next r\xE9sum\xE9 in the
    stack. So if you\u2019re selling yourself to a particular firm as an experienced
    FDIC ligitator, why not just say \"Zachary Brown | Experienced FDIC Ligitator\"?
    Don't assume that anyone will read the content and reach that conclusion.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    as pointed out above, when you use OpenType fonts with Word\u2019s built-in PDF
    generator, they get rasterized. This is bad, because it makes your file large,
    and it makes it display poorly on screen & printed. Solution: use a dedicated
    PDF print driver, like the one included with Adobe Acrobat, or one of the many
    third-party options that are cheaper.\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-02 22:14:18'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "On page 1 you're using hanging indents, but in \"Other Work Experience\"
    on page 2 you aren't. I'd be consistent with your paragraph styles.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    this is just personal taste but to me all the hanging indents give it a busy look.
    I'd suggest experimenting with some alternatives like making the paragraphs flush
    left (maybe add slightly more space between paragraphs; get it by reducing leading
    very slightly), or maybe use bullets instead. \r\n\r\nAlso you might try bumping
    up the size of your main heads (like Core Professional Experience) slightly."
  created: '2012-05-02 22:37:42'
- author:
    name: zjb1
  body: "Butterick:\r\n\r\nI feel like I posted a question to a physics forum and
    just got a response from Enrico Fermi! I'm so grateful for your efforts to show
    the legal profession why typography matters. A few years ago, you might have been
    a lone voice crying out in the wilderness. But many lawyers have since embraced
    your cause. \r\n\r\nI learned stuff on your website that dramatically changed
    my understanding of my own job as a lawyer. The bottom line is this: lawyers who
    don't care about typography are lawyers who do their work badly, and that's inexcusable.
    So let me thank you first for your influential website and book. Now I'll thank
    you again for reviewing my CV and giving me your sensible comments. \r\n\r\nThe
    forum has offered me so much valuable input. Those hanging indents in the columns
    are hideously distracting, aren't they? They make the document look like an old
    IBM punch card. That will be an easy fix.\r\n\r\nAfter I make some comprehensive
    revisions to my CV, then maybe I'll seek the forum's advice again. For now, however,
    I think it would be prudent to take down the draft versions that I posted here
    earlier (if I can still make that happen). \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nZack Brown\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2012-05-03 00:55:00'
- author:
    name: zjb1
  body: "Hi everyone. Since I started this thread two months ago, I've been slowly
    working on my r\xE9sum\xE9. I've just posted two new versions of it here.\r\n\r\nIn
    trying to fit this thing on a single page, I took out a lot of nonessential information.
    I know many people insist it's better to use more pages rather than cram too much
    on one page. But I have some good reasons to make my CV a one-page document.\r\n\r\nI
    think I've come up with a sensible layout. Now I'm trying to decide whether to
    use a serif font (Sabon Next) or sans serif font (Whitney). Both fonts are set
    at 10.5 pt with 14.5 pt line spacing and very wide margins on letter size paper.\r\n\r\nSabon
    Next is elegant and traditional, lawyerly and easy to read. But I still have a
    lot of text and I'm worried Sabon will make the document too busy, even at 10.5
    pt.\r\n\r\nA while ago, I had a fantasy of setting the whole thing in Absara Sans,
    but some friends persuaded me that Absara is too informal. Whitney is a great
    alternative. Somehow it's more formal than Absara without feeling impersonal.
    \r\n\r\nBut is Whitney too spare and modern? One person who saw my CV set in Whitney
    said it looked too daring, too different. He also said lawyers shouldn't use sans
    serif fonts, except maybe for headings. He's pretty old and his sense of style
    is different from mine, but guys like him are probably part of my target audience.
    \r\n\r\nLooking at the two documents side-by-side, I think the Sabon version is
    warmer. It's old fashioned in the right way. But the Whitney version is definitely
    more legible for me at this size.\r\n\r\nYou experts gave me lots of valuable
    criticism in April. Now I'm back again to see what you think. Which font do you
    prefer? Any advice on my layout? I'll appreciate getting whatever feedback you
    care to offer.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2012-06-30 05:35:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "- I'm no old fogey lawyer, but even to me the sans one doesn't feel right.\r\n-
    It doesn't look cramped. I don't know if you dumped too much important info though.\r\n-
    Why are the two lines under your name wider than the main text column?\r\n- I
    think your two rules are going too far right. Although instead of trimming them
    I might make them go further left.\r\n- A little bit more room above \"Education\"
    might be nice.\r\n- Try an en dash instead of a hyphen in your phone number.\r\n-
    To me running text that uses semicolons needs periods too.\r\n- In the Meserve
    section you're mixing present and past tenses. For a current job I would go with
    the former.\r\n- In the 4th paragraph kern the A-apostrophe in \"FHA'S\".\r\n-
    You're not using \"fi\" etc. ligatures?\r\n- I would dump the colons in the \"Education\"
    section.\r\n- Kern the \"s/\" in \"Hays/FLAS\".\r\n- That \"Nat'l\" is bugging
    me - better to spell it out. I know you don't have much room though... What about
    dumping the \"Dean's List\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-30 06:43:38'
- author:
    name: zjb1
  body: "Thanks for your smart suggestions, Hrant. I've taken almost all your advice
    and posted the updated document here. The only thing I can't do is figure out
    is how to use ligatures, although they're supposed to be supported in my version
    of Word.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dstdenis
    body: "<blockquote>The only thing I can't do is figure out is how to use ligatures,
      although they're supposed to be supported in my version of Word.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFont
      | Advanced | Ligatures\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FontFeatures_6052.png]"
    created: '2012-06-30 20:22:53'
  created: '2012-06-30 16:59:28'
- author:
    name: processcamera
    picture: 117085
  body: "Speaking as an amateur reviewer with absolutely no legal training, I think
    the first paragraph sounds dumbed down and could potentially be deleted to make
    room for a hairline border and a couple lines of white space at the bottom of
    the page. I think that running text to the bottom margin leads most people to
    expect another page of text, whereas leaving some white space above the margin
    makes clear that the CV has ended.\r\n "
  created: '2012-07-02 20:20:04'
date: '2012-04-22 02:48:17'
files:
- filename: ZB Sabon June 30 CV draft (Hrant's advice taken)2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/ZB Sabon June 30 CV draft (Hrant's advice taken)2.pdf
node_type: forum
title: "Lawyer Seeking R\xE9sum\xE9 Critique"

---
