---
author:
  name: inkexit
body: In 2375, after a long, hard fought battle, the last piece of media is released
  with the use of a sans serif font.  Old Vendome, was the last to go down. From this
  point onward, nothing containing serif fonts is created, physically or electronically.
  The death bell for serifs tolls in 2375.
comments:
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "Try making some sense of that after you sober up.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-25 00:15:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: When I was a young lad, I thought that serifs were needless embellishments,
    and that they were old-fashioned, and we should move to sans-serif typefaces.
    Now, I appreciate the readability and beauty of serif typefaces, and I expect
    they will be around as long as the Latin alphabet.
  created: '2012-04-25 00:26:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: In all deference to Ganeau, (as much as I think of Vendome and its unique
    qualities)... if that face is the last vestige of serif fonts left in the year
    2375 then we truly are undone. And as Majus said, sober up! Sans are a passing,
    boring/uninspired, fad.
  created: '2012-04-25 01:49:58'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Reminds me of Carson.
  created: '2012-04-25 01:56:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think head-serifs will actually grow considerably by 2375, on account of
    global warming.\r\n\r\nAn aside about Vend\xF4me: In David Rault's recent book
    about Excoffon, Jos\xE9 Mendoza y Almeida states: \"I saw Ganeau\u2019s test proofs
    and I can attest that all, or almost all of Vend\xF4me\u2019s originality, including
    the deliberate (and in my view excessive) aggressiveness is due to Excoffon\u2019s
    hand, to his indulgence in the subtle interplay of forms, designs, practices,
    traditions. Very dynamic, very novel, fresh and intense, Vend\xF4me is a typeface
    for combat rather than comfort.\" (My translation.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nToday,
    learn about the Armenian Genocide.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-25 01:59:01'
- author:
    name: CanwllCorfe
    picture: 122162
  body: "<em>When I was a young lad, I thought that serifs were needless embellishments,
    and that they were old-fashioned, and we should move to sans-serif typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    actually had that very experience in my first typography class. They were fanatical
    about Helvetica, but not so much about any serif fonts. I'm partial to most anything,
    but I had quite a fondness for Baskerville. I still do. I don't see them dying
    any time soon. On second thought, Baskerville <em>is</em> over 200 years old. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: sko
      picture: 124613
    body: "<cite>I actually had that very experience in my first typography class.
      They were fanatical about Helvetica, but not so much about any serif fonts.
      </cite>\r\n\r\nSomething similar happened during my graphic design classes.
      Serifs were not used chosen very often, except rather than Helvetica, the 'in-thing'
      was Gotham."
    created: '2012-04-26 10:50:54'
  created: '2012-04-26 04:24:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>Baskerville is over 200 years old</blockquote>\r\nThe model for
    Trajan is almost 2000 years old, and still going strong ;-)"
  created: '2012-04-26 06:50:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: http://v4.jasonsantamaria.com/articles/change-of-heart/
  created: '2012-04-26 11:34:51'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "The serifs days are numbered. You wait...\r\n\r\nI didn't know Excoffon had
    anything to do with Vendome. No wonder I like it."
  created: '2012-04-26 22:10:42'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Trends come and trends go. Even now\u2014when the Space Race has been co-opted
    by the Race to Develop the Sans Face with the Quirkiest Double-story Lowercase
    A\u2014serifs are alive and well in fanciful type. Those severe lines and blunt
    terminals just can\u2019t compete with the swirls and curls that come natural
    to serifs.\r\n\r\nJust sayin\u2019\u2026"
  created: '2012-04-26 23:45:24'
- author:
    name: CanwllCorfe
    picture: 122162
  body: "@riccard0 I forgot about Trajan... I should have used that. But then again
    I don't think there's many 2,000 year old people (that's two Methuselahs!), so
    my unbelievably witty joke wouldn't have worked as well. I haven't used Trajan
    in forever. I did use Cyan, which is based off of it though. I'm gonna stop now
    before I keep rambling. \r\n\r\n@sko I'm surprised I didn't hear much about Gotham!
    I actually think that behind Helvetica, there wasn't much of any other popular
    choices. It was kind of like a free for all. I did see a lot of Bleeding Cowboys."
  children:
  - author:
      name: sko
      picture: 124613
    body: "@CanwllCorfe It wasn't really when we started, but while the classes went
      on they started talking about Gotham. Early on there was a lot of display face
      (ab?)use too.\r\n\r\nBehind those, it was mostly a mix of different flavours
      of Sans with a few serifs popping up."
    created: '2012-04-27 08:11:41'
  created: '2012-04-27 00:31:04'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: rs, which Carson?
  created: '2012-04-27 02:12:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The font, NotCarson. It's incredibly readable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 02:15:29'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: You think rs donsata is comparing Vendome to NotCarson?
  created: '2012-04-27 02:19:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, how young are you?\r\nhttp://www.emigre.com/EF.php?fid=111\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 02:40:53'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Do you think NotCaslon was an attack against Sans Serifs?
  created: '2012-04-27 02:51:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think it was an attack on fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 02:57:04'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Yeah... David Carson and some other people went  berserk about type and expected
    a riotous revolution on type in the 90's which later turned into typographic revisionism
    on the 2000's.\r\n\r\nWe are not very likely to get rid of serif faces until someone
    invents some better performing style or we stop reading thing longer than a magazine
    spread."
  created: '2012-04-27 15:48:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The idea that serifs will become functionally obsolete is a nice little myth
    of modernism.\r\nWhether serifs are useful to the process of reading-as-deciphering-text
    is besides the point.\r\nType forms are invested with far more meaning than that,
    and it is not just an aesthetic veneer.\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 17:11:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Throw into the mix that \"serif face\" is not as easy to define as one might
    like... Remember the serif axis of Penumbra?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-27 17:34:24'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Ok, Carson using NotCaslon, or something like that. I get it. I really do.
    Dada. and then some. anyway, 2375 shall not be the end of type design, or rather
    a whiplash reaction to neoclassicism, which was what NotCaslon actually was, and
    which, by the way has been rather defeated across most artistic disciplines, but
    the end to Serif Fonts. And there are Serifs all over NotCaslon.
  created: '2012-04-28 00:46:36'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Once people tought radio would kill the newspapers, then television was meant
    to kill radio, then internet was meant to kill television. I am really curious
    about what would be meant to kill the internet.
  created: '2012-04-28 01:04:13'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Font selection isn't media darwinism.
  created: '2012-04-28 01:12:37'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: "@H\xE9ctor\r\nSelf distraction.\r\n\r\n@Hrant: <cite>It's incredibly readable.</cite>\r\nAllow
    me to disagree. Particularly the words underlined in the image below require some
    extra effort.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PNot_3802.GIF]"
  created: '2012-04-28 01:35:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I said Not<strong>Carson</strong> is incredibly readable... It was a joke.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-28 01:39:41'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: Pardon my ignorance.
  created: '2012-04-28 01:41:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@rs_donsata:\r\n<cite>Once people tought radio would kill the newspapers,
    then television was meant to kill radio, then internet was meant to kill television.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    true that newspapers aren't dead yet.\r\n\r\nHowever, television has meant that
    people only listen to the radio for music. You don't hear drama programs on the
    radio, like Fibber McGee and Molly, or Little Orphan Annie, or Captain Midnight,
    or, for that matter, Gunsmoke - which was on the radio before it got moved to
    TV - any more.\r\n\r\nAnd the Internet is filling many of the otherwise idle hours
    of people that they might have spent watching television. And the effects of the
    many channels of TV on local broadcasters before that are well-known as well.\r\n\r\nNow,
    what might be the next big thing after the Internet... well, whoever brings it
    about stands to make billions of dollars, so if I were able to foresee it, I would
    be <em>doing</em> it, not telling you about it. But I agree that since the Internet
    is so flexible, and it allows people to create, not just consume, it would seem
    like any future media could be placed <em>on</em> the Internet rather than superceding
    it.\r\n\r\nAlthough it's hard to monetize stuff on the Internet, so that might
    be an excuse for putting stuff elsewhere - but then it's not likely that whatever
    it is would be nearly as big as the Internet, since it would cost more."
  created: '2012-04-28 02:12:23'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I actually think NotCarson, and it's second cut evenmore so, is incredibly
    exquisite and beautiful. I imagine this is most due to a type designer's slavery
    to systematic thinking more than any rebelliousness.\r\n\r\nbut all fancy lines
    die in 2375.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-28 02:13:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nevermind...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-28 02:21:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>The idea that serifs will become functionally obsolete
    is a nice little myth of modernism.</cite>\r\n<cite>Whether serifs are useful
    to the process of reading-as-deciphering-text is besides the point.</cite>\r\n<cite>Type
    forms are invested with far more meaning than that, and it is not just an aesthetic
    veneer.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou may be 100% right, but I tend to be inclined to take
    issue with some of this.\r\n\r\nI fully agree with your first paragraph... except
    that I'd be inclined to add \"in the foreseeable future\" as a qualification.
    I don't think it's absolutely <em>impossible</em> for serifs to go out of fashion.\r\n\r\nWhile
    it would seem incredible to me if typefaces like Helvetica, Univers, Futura, and
    Gill Sans pushed out serif faces, that the evolution of typographic preferences
    could go in the direction of Optima, Radiant, Lydian, Freehand... in short, towards
    some other cues which add redundancy to the letterform... thus displacing serifs
    as the attribute of choice seems not entirely beyond the bounds of possibility.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to your second paragraph, I'm not sure that my unease with it is because
    of disagreement. I feel uncomfortable making definite categorical statements about
    matters of taste. My aesthetic preferences may not be the same as those of many
    or most other people, now or in the future.\r\n\r\nSo, if serifs aid \"reading-as-deciphering\",
    at least that's one objective straw I can hang on to in an argument. I may feel
    that serifs will continue to be liked for aesthetic reasons, but what can really
    be said with any definiteness about the fickleness of public taste and fashions?\r\n\r\nOf
    course, we all know the story about Hitler and Fraktur. It's not beyond imagination
    that the Western world might be saddled with regimes that consider serif typefaces
    to be \"bourgeois\" and proscribe them. If that keeps on for long enough, even
    after liberation, sans-serif faces will be what people are used to and hence find
    legible.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to your third paragraph: I'm sure you're right,
    but I find your meaning to lie somewhat beyond my grasp.\r\n\r\nAside from the
    \"aesthetic veneer\", what is the meaning of type?\r\n\r\nOne example might be
    that, at present, a sans-serif typeface sends one kind of message when used in,
    say, a letterhead... and a serif typeface sends another. A student newspaper at
    a college might be set in Univers, but never a major daily.\r\n\r\nBut that kind
    of meaning tends to be relative to whatever the current baseline of fashion might
    be. So it doesn't seem to be much of a bulwark against a changed world in which
    using Optima instead of Univers sends the same message that using Times Roman
    instead of Univers currently sends.\r\n\r\nI don't <em>think</em> you were instead
    talking about how typefaces allude to Jenson and Aldus and company; that would
    invite derision if it were meant to describe the habits and reactions of the general
    reader without typographic sophistication.\r\n\r\nSo this is why I'm having problems
    with your posting. I may, like you, feel convinced because of my strong subjective
    preference for serif fonts in some contexts that the Latin-alphabet using portion
    of the human race won't turn its back on them any time soon. But that seems to
    me to be just a personal opinion, rather than a finding based on hard empirical
    data, so I would feel ashamed to present it as a reliable conclusion to other
    people.\r\n\r\nAnd, as an example drawn from recent discussion here, although
    today Armenian is often printed in typefaces with serifs in imitation of Latin
    and Cyrillic typefaces, it got along for decades with the Bolorgir style of type
    which had stroke width variation but no serifs.\r\n\r\nFor that matter, I've seen
    Gujarati typeset in faces that imitate Latin and add serifs, but that's not common
    except as a style of display type.\r\n\r\nI suppose, then, after being reminded
    of this by mentioning Gujarati (and there have been illustrations here of even
    Korean being typeset in mock-Latin styles) the strongest argument for the persistence
    of serif type is that even if it does fall strongly out of fashion as a primary
    text type, it will still exist as a stylistic option - and stylistic options don't
    tend to get completely discarded."
  created: '2012-05-02 19:19:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Aside from the \"aesthetic veneer\", what is the meaning of type?</em>\r\n\r\nType
    has no meaning <em>per se</em>; rather, type is a <em>means</em> to an end. The
    \u201C\xE6sthetic veneer\u201D is the more or less unique attitude which an individual
    typeface\u2019s design contributes to the process of communicating information,
    whether of a factual or fanciful nature.\r\n\r\nSerifs will never \u201Cdie\u201D
    because memories have emotive power; from time to time, we revisit the past and
    mine those memories, for better or for worse."
  created: '2012-05-02 20:11:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Myths may or may not be true.\r\n\r\nModernism was inherently reductive with
    respect to form, and classic modernism removed serifs, considering them to be
    unnecessary ornaments. That is the myth.\r\n\r\nHowever, perhaps Modernism should
    have embraced serifs, if they do indeed perform a useful function to the process
    of reading. \r\n\r\nCertainly, traditionalists believe that serifs are indispensible
    for optimum readability. That too is a myth. The present scienti\uFB01c intelligence,
    as far as I am aware, offers no evidence one way or the other.\r\n\r\nIn reading
    science, the myth seems to be that, beyond a few easily-identi\uFB01able categories,
    all the many different type styles which exist have no bearing on the process
    of reading-as-deciphering (no doubt because they don\u2019t effect reading speed).
    That is what I mean by aesthetic veneer. \r\n\r\nHowever, I \uFB01nd it hard to
    accept that typeface subtleties exist only to cue the reader into what sort of
    document she is about to read, and then vanish from awareness once she becomes
    immersed.\r\n\r\nIn art theory, the \u201Cinnocent eye\u201D was long ago discredited.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-02 22:12:48'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nNot to put too fine a point on it but, in a classical sense,
    myths are always true because they explain First Principles. It is an unfortunate
    latter-day tendency to conflate \u201Cmyth\u201D with \u201Curban legends\u201D
    and the like.\r\n\r\nFew things, once noticed, really vanish from awareness: more
    often than not, they're just moved to the back burner."
  created: '2012-05-02 22:28:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "To put a \uFB01ner point on it: Modernism and Traditionalism may be considered
    myths, in both of which serifs play a role irrespective of any empirically demonstrable
    function.\r\n\r\nIn those mythical roles, serifs are true to the precepts of the
    myths, whether or not it\u2019s true that that they improve readability.\r\n\r\nThat
    makes perfect sense to me, because from my perspective as a typographer, more
    practical than ideological, I have always found it very useful to combine both
    in layouts with complex hierarchies of text, the contrast between sans and serif
    type proving practically indispensible.\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-02 23:27:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>although today Armenian is often printed in typefaces with serifs
    in imitation of Latin and Cyrillic typefaces, it got along for decades with the
    Bolorgir style of type which had stroke width variation but no serifs.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's
    certainly true that many contemporary Armenian fonts -like Sylfaen- have too many
    serifs (which isn't just an \xE6sthetic problem - it causes readability issues)
    and that mostly comes directly from Latin (and I guess Cyrillic) type. But traditional
    Armenian letterforms aren't exactly sans either... They often have what are basically
    serifs that are in fact so long they often get confused by non-natives for horizontal
    bars! The key thing to realize is the strong role of slant in Armenian authenticity,
    and that throws an interesting wrench into the sans-versus-serif debate, as well
    as the true nature of an optimal \"italic\" for Armenian. The latter probably
    remains the single biggest question mark in my own head.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Type
    has no meaning <em>per se</em></blockquote>\r\n\r\nI would counter that everything
    has meaning, especially something visible (since the human reality is so strongly
    dependent on vision).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The present scienti\uFB01c intelligence,
    as far as I am aware, offers no evidence one way or the other.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNeither
    does reading entrails, which frankly seems qualitatively equal in scientific rigor
    to \"present scientific intelligence\" concerning reading; but that still leaves
    us with regular intelligence, which points squarely towards serifs helping reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-03 01:52:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>They often have what are basically serifs that are in fact
    so long they often get confused by non-natives for horizontal bars!</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm.
    Maybe this explains why some Armenian capital letters - or initials - have horizontal
    strokes so thin that they're actually nonexistent.\r\n\r\nSo some strokes that
    are believed by outsiders to be <em>elements of the character</em> are actually
    just large serifs? Then, indeed, serifs on serifs would create a confusing fractal
    effect...\r\n\r\nAlthough if the Armenians in Armenia are happy with thoroughly
    Latinized typefaces, and only those in the diaspora, under the pervasive influence
    of other scripts (but, on the other hand, the Arabic script, the main outside
    influence on Armenians in <em>Lebanon</em>, unlike the Latin script, would seem
    to be less likely to have a corrupting influence...) value the distinctive characteristics
    of Bolorgir... then one might despair of finding anywhere an authentic authenticity
    of Armenian visual sense.\r\n\r\nSo I suppose one will have to venture to contact
    Armenians in Lebanon to find out their typeface style preferences... although
    they likely have far more pressing concerns."
  created: '2012-05-03 02:54:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>horizontal strokes so thin that they're actually nonexistent.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    have a theory that this might come from blindly emulating eroded inscriptions.\r\nhttp://armenotype.com/wp-content/gallery/highlights/dsc_0377.jpg\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of the difference between long one-sided serifs versus crucial elements,
    it can get pretty subtle. Here's an illustration from my recent Armenotype article*:\r\nhttp://armenotype.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/illustration2.gif\r\nThat's
    from my first-ever outline font, which I made by staring (without magnification)
    at the letterforms in a document set in Compugraphic's Barz (possibly the most
    ubiquitous Bolorgir, at least back then). Look at the bottom-left corners of the
    descenders: it was probably hopeless (I was too inexperienced to appreciated the
    total disappearance of tiny details at text sizes on laser printers on lousy paper...)
    but I tried to implement a difference between serifs versus actual horizontal
    bars - the \xAB\u056B\xBB, \xAB\u056D\xBB and \xAB\u056F\xBB have serifs, while
    the \xAB\u056C\xBB and \xAB\u0572\xBB have bars.\r\n\r\n* http://armenotype.com/2012/04/archipelago/\r\n\r\n<blockquote>if
    the Armenians in Armenia are happy with thoroughly Latinized typefaces</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot
    all of them are happy. And some of them are \"happy\" because they see it as a
    necessary evil, sort of how -I and others believe- Ataturk converted Turkish from
    Latin to Arabic - to play along with the victorious West after WWI. As for the
    rest, I hope they'll attend my talk in Yerevan in the second week of June...  :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe
    Armenian communities in Lebanon have severely weakened over the years, and many
    of those that remain have trouble staying Armenian (something our US communities
    were previously infamous for). It's ironic that they were strongest at the height
    of the Lebanese Civil War. I still have a lot of family there (including a cousin
    who used to be the editor of Aztag, once the premiere diasporan newspaper) but
    sadly I can't consider the Armenian diaspora in Lebanon to be trend-setting in
    any way these days.\r\n\r\nBTW, Lebanon -still- has two official languages: Arabic
    and French. Coupled to the fact that English is the lingua franca, any Lebanese
    person (especially an Armenian one, since we're more Western than the average
    Lebanese) is at least as influenced by Latin forms as Arabic ones. There are even
    certain strata of Lebanese people who want to deny they're Arab, to the point
    of making some Arabic words sound French. :-/  A classic example is the word for
    rat, \"jardon\" (affectedly pronounced with a \"gh\" for the \"r\", and a nasal
    \"n\") which in fact is nothing but the Arabic word \"jirthaan\"! Lebanon is funny.
    Anyway, I digress...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-03 05:03:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HP: 'Neither does reading entrails, which frankly seems qualitatively equal
    in scientific rigor to \"present scientific intelligence\" concerning reading;'\r\n\r\n[He's
    kidding again.]\r\n\r\n\"...but that still leaves us with regular intelligence,
    which points squarely towards serifs helping reading.\"\r\n \r\n...if device resolution/printing
    allows them to do their job... if not, according to regular intelligence, they
    almost all must fall off."
  created: '2012-05-04 20:27:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If the resolution is low enough they do get too thick/tall, but I wonder
    if strategically letting them touch (laterally) might actually promote boumas.
    Serif-wise ligation.\r\n\r\nAnd to in a way rephrase something I wrote above:
    contrary to what tradition might say, serifs don't need to be an all-or-nothing
    proposition. We should really be looking at where they need to go beyond \"well,
    that's how my pappy did it\". Does this in effect make them a \"structural element\"
    instead of mere bling? Unsettlingly, but yes it must.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-04 20:49:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HP: \"I wonder if strategically letting them touch (laterally) might actually
    promote boumas\"\r\n\r\nThat's an interesting question, of course, but if the
    market is any indication, and outside of high resolution-specific specifications,
    (e.g. the Kindle), serifs have been relegated to the back seat. And I'm pretty
    sure from the designs of nearly all serif text faces that I'm familiar with, that
    serifs touching is not beneficial.\r\n\r\n\"...serifs don't need to be an all-or-nothing
    proposition...\" \r\n\r\nBut when it comes down to executing a readable design
    in low resolution opentype-free environments, some-serif fonts show serifs on
    only I, 1 and maybe a few others. Why? \"Sometimes-some-serif\" fonts might be
    more promising, when contextual layout is more widely used. In the meantime, I'd
    very much like to see your trials of a bouma-optimized sometimes-some-serif font,
    which I think you think you can do now. The place I think feets could be more
    beneficial are on beginnings and ends of words, and on stems above and below the
    x-ht, incl. caps.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 13:14:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But/and what about \"traditional\" semi-serif designs, where the leftward
    ones (typically on heads) and rightward ones (feet) can still maintain one-pixel
    gaps (without stems becoming too distant)?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 14:57:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> but I wonder if strategically letting them touch (laterally) might actually
    promote boumas. \r\n\r\nAll the available evidence, as well as generally accepted
    theory, suggests that if serifs touching has any effect on legibility, it would
    be bad.\r\n\r\nThat includes this recent research, presented at ATypI Reykjavik
    (September 2011):\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/past-conferences/2011-reykjavik/programme/activity?a=109\r\n\r\nThat
    does not mean that the effect would be significant under normal/good reading conditions.
    I for one was always surprised that setting entire paragraphs in Blue Island works
    so well. http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/blue-island/\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2012-05-11 05:06:29'
date: '2012-04-25 00:12:24'
title: The Death of Serif Fonts

---
