---
author:
  name: raph
  picture: 109741
body: 'I picked up a copy of &#34;Origines de L&#39;Imprimerie En France&#34; &#40;Arthur
  Christian, 1905&#41; a couple weeks ago, and among its many delights was a font
  with the following attribution: Cette premi'
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I remembered that H
  created: '2005-02-15 21:59:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'OK, there&#39;s something in the IN specimen book &#40;1990&#41;. <BR> <BR>From
    page 134: <BR>&#34;Arthur Christian, directeur de l&#39;Imprimerie nationale et
    bibliophile, demande en 1900 '
  created: '2005-02-16 00:23:34'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\n   Yes, if you could scan the page(s) from the Imprimerie specimen
    book, that would be great. I'm working from the 16pt from the \"Debuts de L'Imprimerie
    en France\" book mentioned above (have no idea how I mistranscribed it as \"Origines\").
    It has a fairly complete set of sorts, but is missing miniscule w and magiscule
    X (or, possibly, I overlooked their occurrences).\r\n\r\n   And thanks for pointing
    me to the IN specimen book; I wasn't aware of it. It's high on my want list now.\r\n\r\n
    \  Also, if people are <i>really</i> curious to see my work-in-progress, ask and
    I'll post. I'm kinda excited about this one."
  created: '2005-07-05 21:40:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Avec plaisir:\r\n\r\n(664Kb) http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/gothique.gif\r\n\r\nIt's
    600dpi, and cleaned up -carefully- to reduce filesize & get rid of the stuff on
    the back of the page. This is (almost) the best I could do - the repro in the
    book isn't so hot.\r\n\r\n> have no idea how I mistranscribed it as \u201COrigines\u201D\r\n\r\nWell,
    that <strong>is</strong> the title of a predecessor to the 1905 edition...\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSo
    you're doing a literal revival? Like you're not going to improve that \"g\"? It
    looks like a \"y\" that's a bit too happy to see its righthand glyph...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 23:29:58'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Thanks. I was hoping it was a more complete showing, but at having all the
    sizes is helpful. I see that what they have listed as a \"14\" is what I've measured
    as 16. Sigh, one of these days I'll actually learn to measure ancient sizes.\r\n\r\n<i>So
    you\u2019re doing a literal revival? Like you\u2019re not going to improve that
    \u201Cg\u201D?</i>\r\n\r\nWhat I've drawn so far is quite literal, but I do plan
    on improving some of the glyphs. The cap \"T\", for example, reads too much like
    an \"E\". I'm not yet convinced I need to redo the \"g\", though. It's perfectly
    legible, and is a very distinctive feature of the font. It's also historically
    grounded, having the same shape as in Collard Mansion's 1484 Ovid Metamorphoses
    (arguably a more direct influence on this font than Gutenberg; in particular,
    the final letter variations are almost a direct match). [plate 22 in Morison and
    Day]\r\n\r\nWhat would you suggest bastardizing it to?"
  created: '2005-07-06 20:46:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> one of these days I\u2019ll actually learn to measure ancient sizes.\r\n\r\n1)
    I don't think there's a reliable way anyway. The talus (internal leading) can
    be anything, even negative, like if there's kerns at the bottom of the descenders
    of a script face - and it doesn't even have to be a script face: I remember seeing
    smaller sizes of some Baskerville with a \"g\" that extended below the Em! (Or
    maybe it was Palatino.)\r\n2) Don't forget to account for Didot versus Postscript
    points.\r\n\r\n> What would you suggest bastardizing it to?\r\n\r\nI'd just make
    the top of the \"g\" more integral, not so slapped on. But only if it's not a
    literal revival... in which case I might not stop at the \"g\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-06 20:55:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>in which case I might not stop at the \u201Cg\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nthe beauty
    of [[OpenType]]: alternates."
  created: '2005-07-06 21:14:45'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Raph, I'm really curious about the letter "s". Would you change that at all
    or leave it as is?
  created: '2005-07-06 23:58:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is a dodgy face -- it's a dog's breakfast with colour issues.\r\nThe
    way it is here, the designer probably figured he had a good balance of disparate
    elements (\"goth remix\", as Hrant put it), so normalizing problem characters
    kind of defeats the whole purpose of the font.\r\n\r\nRaph, why not do your own
    remix from a selection of old fonts? "
  created: '2005-07-07 11:33:28'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Nick: can I quote you in the marketing materials for the font? More seriously,
    I'm digitizing this because I think it makes an interesting statement, and given
    the resurgence in blackletter faces, I think it may well find niches in certain
    designs. I find it more readable than most blackletters, good enough for medium-length
    runs of text.\r\n\r\nhrant (re size): yes, the talus of this font is especially
    confusing because the cap \"V\" has an ascender that vastly exceeds the normal
    ascent, so much so that it could almost collide with the previous line's descender.
    Indeed, in one of the larger sizes (I think 16/18 but haven't measured it carefully)
    you get the feeling that the compositor adjusted the line breaks to avoid just
    such a collision.\r\n\r\nandigrl: actually, in the clip I posted, all the \"s\"
    glyphs happen to be final, so you're seeing only that form of teh letter. The
    other form is far more standard. I'll post three images of it here for your your
    amusement.\r\n\r\nFirst, a <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/myfonts/xgothic/s_raw.png\">raw
    scan</a> (normalized for contrast) of one instance. This is a 2400 dpi scan, so
    it's about 467 ppem. The printing quality is fairly good for 100-year old letterpress,
    but of course you can see plenty of paper texture and a bit of uneven ink spread.\r\n\r\nSecond,
    I <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/myfonts/xgothic/s_avg.png\">averaged</a> together
    dozens of instances to form a composite image. I believe this image reveals very
    nearly the true shape of the metal. You can see a slight lightening of the interior
    of the letter on corners, indicating that some instances are chipped. This lightening
    always happens on fragile parts of letters, and the degree of lightening corresponds
    to the probability of damage. Similarly, the zone of ink spread is a light-gray
    blur emanating from the body of the letter.\r\n\r\nLast, my <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/myfonts/xgothic/s_font.png\">digitization</a>.
    You can see that I followed the original shape quite literally, even to the point
    of different rounding radii for the different corners. I may want to replace some
    of these rounded corners with sharp ones, but I also don't want to change the
    character of the font too much. In particular, at large sizes I find a mixture
    of soft and sharp corners to be unappealing.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 03:21:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick: can I quote you in the marketing materials for the font?\r\n\r\nYes,
    for a small licensing fee.\r\n\r\n>I averaged together dozens of instances to
    form a composite image. I believe this image reveals very nearly the true shape
    of the metal. \r\n\r\nThat's like averaging all the portrait shots in a photo
    shoot and saying that the composite best captures the subject. An interesting
    modern art idea, intellectually intriguing but dull in practice. There are always
    one or two shots that stand out, capturing the presence of the subject, far more
    attractive than the others, or a composite of them can ever be. \r\n\r\nIt's also
    like digitally remastering an old music recording by averaging transcriptions
    from vinyl. It would be better to work from the original masters, or snip the
    hiss and clicks. You can keep them as a featured artefact (Portishead, Founders
    Caslon), but averaging them just creates soft noise. \r\n\r\nWith letterpress
    typography neither the type (\"the true[?] shape of the metal\") nor an average
    of impressions reveals the nature of the endeavor: there is an optimum printing.
    The question is, what is it? That's open to critical interpretation (how much
    bite, how much ink, etc.) What was the type founder's intent? What did he consider
    the best impression? Was there something that he was aiming for with the typeface
    that he was never able to achieve in letterpress, that may be possible digitally?
    I suspect he would have opted for more sharpness, rather than less.\r\n\r\nRepurposing
    a typeface by digitizing invlolves a critical attitude, a value judgement. The
    \"averaging\" method is one such judgement as to what is appropriate, but it is
    non-commital, a statement too fuzzy to be disproved. Not the same as the truth.\r\n\r\nUltimately
    there is no truth, only design."
  created: '2005-07-11 13:08:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Yes, for a small licensing fee.\r\n\r\nYes, and don't forget to memorize
    the EULA verbatim.\r\n\r\n> That\u2019s like averaging all the portrait shots
    in a photo shoot\r\n\r\nNo, because a metal sort is not a person.\r\n\r\nIf the
    point is to make a literal revival, and when you don't have access to the original
    metal (plus access to a way to actually print with it in an \"intended\" way)
    Raph's method is supremely useful*, sort of because it removes printing variance.
    This, even (in fact especially) if the printing at hand was done in a way that
    the original designer didn't want (not that all of them were sophisticated enough
    to worry about that) because the \"average\" form is still something more than
    nothing that you can work from, to interpret further.\r\n\r\n* It won't be long
    before it gets a lot more attention. Raph, send it to APHA for one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 16:49:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Whether it's a good idea to average an image seems like a really pleasantly
    complicated question. On the one hand you could be seeking an average because
    you want to find out what it is - just curious - or because you think that it
    is meaningful on an artistic level in an of itself. Maybe valid... Maybe.\r\n\r\nYou
    also might want to use it as Hrant said, as the base to jump off from. That seems
    fairly viable to me. But my intuition is that if you are not careful a blurry
    image may lead to soft blurry thinking. Not that it has to be that way - but the
    averaging could be a way of letting a process be a substitute for looking & thinking.
    A dubious & weak substitute. It might well be a good tool - I can't say - I haven't
    tried it. But it does seem like it could be a kind of crutch you don't need getting
    in the way of the real job at hand.\r\n\r\nI think that is probably why Nick was
    suggesting that a new remix might be a better route. Making your own would require
    a more direct & less automatic relationship with the shapes.\r\n\r\nBeing really
    litteral in your revival might be best served by picking an specific imprint to
    use & improve from ( plus some altrenates to think about ) gives you a more specific
    outline to develop reactions to - more specific aspects, more personality or character
    to like or dislike - and to make conscious decisions about.\r\n\r\nAnd picking
    a specific instance ( or several one at a time ) also brings you face to face
    with the issue of ink/imprint/paper VS screen raster & laserprinting & other modern
    printing/output. There have been many Threads here on Typophile that talk about
    the relationship. The book ' Counterpunch : making type in the sixteenth century,
    designing typefaces now ' by Fred Smeijers has a great section in which talks
    about the way that laserprinters and other modern printing differ from metal print
    and what he regards as the mistakes that were made when classic faces were digitized.
    If you are making a revival it seems like this issue aught maybe; to be issue
    #1. Do you aready know about these issues? Am I preaching to the choir?\r\n\r\nHrant,
    What is APHA? \r\n\r\nI hope your project goes well. This face has a ton of personality
    & verve. I think thats why I worry about averaging. It think that verve might
    be lost in the process. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 17:32:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.printinghistory.org/\r\n\r\nThey recently had a article by Kay
    Amert about computer-aided letterform analysis; but Raph's stuff puts that firmly
    in the shade.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 21:07:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "In re-reading all this I have to admit I think that Nick is probably right
    about where the excitement is - in the value judgement.\r\n\r\nHrant - do you
    say this based on what is posted here or with additional material. I looked for
    your reference - This is as far as I could get without interlibrary loan's help
    - \r\n\r\n \"How  many  times  have  APHA  members  compared  two  typefaces,
    thought them similar (if not identical), and  felt at a loss to prove it? Such
    a problem was faced by  Kay Amert, Professor and Director of the Typography  Laboratory
    at the University of Iowa, when she examined  the types used by two French printers:
    Simon de Colines  and Robert Estienne. She perceived an eerie likeness  when before
    her lay two books: the former\u2019s La Dissection  and the latter\u2019s Georgics-like
    poem La Coltivatione. A bit  of a mystic, she cracked the problem in a dream in
    which  the gestalt of a single letter floated before her computer  screen; and,
    lo, superimposition became the answer. By  bit-mapping a particular letter from
    one page in vertical  lines and its equivalent from the other in horizontals,
    \ she saw consonance where they created a cross-hatch  and  differences  where
    \ single  lines  extended  beyond  the cross-hatchings. When she presented still
    another  comparison, some grew impatient to learn her views as  to why there should
    be such differences: punch modifications? re-cuttings? variations in inking? make-ready?
    \ paper-dampening? But Professor Amert held that such  questions called for other
    seminars and that her purpose  was to recommend \u2013 to serious type-history
    scholars \u2013  the computer as an aid in addressing problems which  have plagued
    them for centuries.  - - Greer Allen\"\r\n\r\nThat thing - no? What do you think
    make's ralph's analysis better? The part about the 'broken/weaker' bits?\r\n\r\nAnyway
    - I have noticed that there is always a groupo of folk who hold that systems &
    analysis don't help the design of letterforms much or at all; and those that think
    they can be of service. Hrant, I think you Ralph & I belong in the second group
    as I see it. But I have to admit that even as I seek out systems ( Like DeGroots'
    letterform weight model) I remain slightly skeptical of them too and I think that's
    prudent even healthy - don't you?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 21:59:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "This is an interesting bastard of a mix (the original, not Raph's methods\u2026).
    Looking at the sample in the top post, I'm struck by three things.\r\n\r\n1. That
    lowercase g has a top that is so [[Schwabacher]].\r\n\r\n2. But that L is almost
    a [[Civilit\xE9]]\r\n\r\n3. The type seems to have no real rhythm of shapes or
    internal elements, the way that most \"blackletters\" do\u2026\r\n\r\nThe art
    nouveau era was symbolized by a number of attempt to reform blackletter by mixing
    it with itself or with foreign styles. To my knowledge, none of the attempts \"worked\"*
    \r\n\r\nRaph's find doesn't either, but it could always revived it anyway. (I
    don't know what a user could use it for\u2026 the typeface didn't successfully
    capture any contextual spirit in its own time, either.)\r\n\r\nCall me a [[designer]],
    but I think that the exact (or as close to exact as possible) recreation of someone
    else's intent is totally boring. Put those outlines where YOU think they should
    go. It isn't really important where the typefounder put them, I think. This face
    is not that \"good\" anyway. If you approach it more from a \"designists\" point
    of you, you might actually improve upon the past, rather than just recreate it.**
    \ \r\n\r\n* After the second world war, some designers\u2014mostly in Germany\u2014had
    figured out a way to make blackletter work again, and it was not any of the art
    nouveau methods. Their method was The Pen. Of course many art nouveau forms were
    formed by the pen, too, but not with \"consistency.\" Those 1920s faces were more
    legible, even if Hrant doesn't like pen-based forms. \r\n\r\n**Not everything
    that existed in the past deserves to be revived, just because it happened to have
    been created once. In the end, you seem to be reviving this because you like it.
    But if people had \"liked\" this face, then it would already be with us in digital
    form. Show all of those nay-sayers what they were missing by finally making this
    design work! Its old forms will mostly likely make people think, \"you know, maybe
    there was a reason that this had gone so long without having been revived\u2026\"\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-11 21:59:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">No, because a metal sort is not a person.\r\n\r\nThat's why I said \"like\",
    and also mentioned another analogy, old recordings.\r\nNo analogy is exact, or
    else it wouldn't be an analogy.\r\n\r\nThe analogy is valid: there is a variance
    of instances in a photo portrait session, just as there is a variance in letterpress
    type impressions of the same character in a sort. The point is that in a session
    of \"shots\" or \"instances\" where the image is variable, there is always going
    to be an image capture that is truer than others, and hence also truer than an
    average. That's the way people see things.\r\n\r\nIt is not a scientific truth,
    but a subjective truth: the discriminating eye of an art director chooses the
    \"selects\" for a magazine, and the discriminating eye of the type designer should
    likewise make its decision. That is the responsibility of design. Averaging is
    a cop-out.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I do find certain kinds of averaging fascinating,
    but in those cases there is some edge to the procedure, for instance the musical
    work of Brian Whitman, where he mines massive databases. The equivalent in typography
    would be a blackletter mix-font that averages every font keyworded \"blackletter\"
    at Myfonts."
  created: '2005-07-11 22:27:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if people had \u201Cliked\u201D this face, then it would already be with
    us in digital form.\r\n\r\nI think that's too simple.\r\n\r\n> there is a variance
    of instances in a photo portrait session\r\n\r\nBecause a human face is a dynamic,
    organic, <strong>living</strong> thing.\r\nA metal sort however is a static thing,
    consicously designed. It's a lifeless lump.\r\n\r\n> Averaging is a cop-out.\r\n\r\nNo,
    in this case averaging is a tool, a useful one, because it shows you what some
    other designer did, in a way otherwise inaccessible. Other designers had a brain
    too. But, again, this is only if you're doing a literal revival. Which makes me
    ask: why don't you go ahead and state a broader belief of yours: that <strong>revivalism</strong>
    is a cop-out?\r\n\r\n> The equivalent in typography would be a blackletter mix-font\r\n>
    that averages every font keyworded \u201Cblackletter\u201D at Myfonts.\r\n\r\nFortunately
    though the 90s are over. Whew.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 22:38:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">A metal sort however is a static thing, consicously designed. It\u2019s
    a lifeless lump.\r\n\r\nBut the process of letterpress printing introduces all
    kinds of unpredictable effects, due to things like varying wear of different pieces
    of type which represent the same letter, variance of inking, variance of pressure,
    and variance of paper stock. So how is one to know which is the \"true\" impression,
    any more than one is to know which photo captures the \"true\" personality of
    the sitter?\r\n\r\n>No, in this case averaging is a tool, a useful one,\r\n\r\nI
    agree, it can be useful, but it has to be a starting point, or a stepping stone,
    not the destination (or almost-destination)\r\n\r\n>why don\u2019t you go ahead
    and state a broader belief of yours: that revivalism is a cop-out?\r\n\r\nThat's
    not my belief. My belief is, and has always been, that revivals have their place
    in contemporary typography. I have done many revivals, and am working on one at
    the moment, actually. \r\n\r\nWhat I have argued against is the suffocating dominance
    of revivals and old typefaces in our type culture. \r\n\r\n>Fortunately though
    the 90s are over.\r\n\r\nGenerative art that uses algorithms to mine databases
    is a more recent idea, derived from Google, perhaps, which coincided with the
    millennium.\r\nBrian Whitman:\r\nhttp://web.media.mit.edu/~bwhitman\r\nA similar
    \"algorithmically driven\" openness to unpredictability of form is present in
    LettError's work, e.g. Beowolf and the Twin typeface.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 23:46:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> But the process of letterpress printing introduces all kinds of unpredictable
    effects\r\n\r\nWhich is exactly what Raph's process nicely removes. That's its
    -obvious- value.\r\n\r\n> any more than one is to know which photo captures the
    \u201Ctrue\u201D personality of the sitter?\r\n\r\nObviously no photo can ever
    capture anybody's personality. But the shape of a piece of metal is on a qualitatively
    different different plane of definition. That's why the analogy is more confusing
    than insightful.\r\n\r\n> it has to be a starting point, or a stepping stone,
    not the destination\r\n\r\nIf you're making a literal revival, it's more like
    a cornerstone.\r\n\r\n> Generative art that uses algorithms to mine databases
    is a more recent idea\r\n\r\nYes, Art. Not Design.\r\n\r\n> A similar \u201Calgorithmically
    driven\u201D openness to unpredictability of form\r\n\r\n\"Anybody who intends
    to generate randomness by arithmetic means is, of course, in a state of sin.\"\r\n-
    Johnny von Neumann\r\n\r\nBTW, I can call him \"Johnny\" because his student was
    my teacher.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 01:30:09'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Raph,\r\n\r\nCould I ask you how you averaged several different s's into
    one composite image?  Did you do it in Photoshop, or is it some mathematical process
    that is way over my head?\r\n\r\nI'm excited to see how the type will turn out!\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2005-07-12 02:34:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Coming back to the revivalism angle:\r\n\r\n> My belief is, and has always
    been\r\n\r\nAh yes, Perfection.\r\n\r\n> I have done many revivals, and am working
    on one at the moment, actually.\r\n> What I have argued against is the suffocating
    dominance of revivals and old\r\n> typefaces in our type culture.\r\n\r\nIf you're
    talking about commissions, that's entirely different. Being paid to explicitly
    do something is partly excusable (if still somewhat of a cop-out; but we're all
    human). However, free-wheelingly contributing to the \"suffocating dominance\"
    is a <strong>major</strong> cop-out, no?\r\n\r\nAlso, I wonder, what do you think
    about type designers whose oeuvre is 90% revivals?\r\n\r\nMaybe your thoughts
    on revivalism have indeed not changed since the Paleozoic; but if not, then your
    vitriol against revivalism has certainly subsided, just in the past half a decade
    or so! Wow. But why?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 04:04:11'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Antiphrasis: it's certainly possible to do it in Photoshop (I used Gimp myself),
    but tedious to the extreme in quantity. Thus, I hacked up some code to segment,
    classify, and blend automatically. The particular run that resulted in this \"s\"
    image was taken from a half dozen pages, contained about 10,000 total glyph impressions,
    and took several hours of computer time to crank through. If motivated, I could
    probably make the tools an order of magnitude or two faster, but even so it's
    a huge improvement over doing it all by hand.\r\n\r\nNick said, <em>there is a
    variance in letterpress type impressions of the same character in a sort.</em>.
    Yes, and that is simply not the case with standard digital type. (you could have
    a font with lots of alternates, perhaps even randomly selected, to simulate the
    flavor of letterpress, but that would be a whole other ball of wax).\r\n\r\nHrant
    and I had some email exchanges about Baskerville* specimens a few months back,
    and I pointed out an \"a\" impression that looked quite garaldish (garaldean?).
    If I were doing a Baskerville revival, it would be tempting to use this particular
    impression as a model. However, it would be a lot harder to argue that this form
    should be considered historically significant. I do think that the averaging technique,
    could help unlock some of the secrets hidden in these seminal sources.\r\n\r\n*I
    had the pleasure of leafing through a Baskerville Aesop today, at Serendipity
    Books in Berkeley. Only $475 too!\r\n\r\nI had said <em>the true shape of the
    metal</em>, but want to take that back. The shape of the metal is but one truth,
    and arguably not the one closest to the intent of the type designer or printer.
    Metal type is designed for an environment in which there is always gain on the
    press; the fact that better quality presswork often meant less gain does not mean
    that the designer's intent would have been satisfied by a perfectly sharp and
    gainless reproduction of the metal shapes.\r\n\r\nWhat I would like to claim,
    instead, is that this averaging procedure produces an image that is very nearly
    as <em>clear</em> as a high-res capture of the shape of the metal. A straight-up
    average is going to be a bit blurred, largely because it's impossible to totally
    get rid of misregistration errors. But, that said, the very low noise of the result
    image lends itself well to sharpening (or, for an extremely sophisticated practitioner,
    deconvolution). I'm playing with this now, and the <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/myfonts/xgothic/s_sharp.png\">initial
    results</a> are fascinating indeed. You can actually see the body of the metal
    being surrounded by the ink gain.\r\n\r\nSo yes, I would stand behind the claim
    that this averaging technique is an <em>analytical</em> tool of unsurpassed power.
    Further, that these images are arguably better than either going to the metal
    or choosing individual impressions if one's goal is creating a faithful reproduction.
    Whether there's any artistic or design merit in doing so is another question altogether,
    and I'm heartened to see the debate over it.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 07:30:08'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Raph,\r\n\r\nThat sounds really interesting... it reminds me of a program
    I created in my neural networks class a few years back.  It analyzed (b/w) pictures
    of human faces and was able to isolate the eyes and save them separately, and
    with more training the program got more and more efficient.  I would assume that
    good OCR programs use neural nets to analyze glyphs... but there might be other
    ways to do it as well.  Thanks for the info!"
  created: '2005-07-12 08:39:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">then your vitriol against revivalism has certainly subsided,\r\n\r\nMy politics:\r\nThink
    globally, act locally -- that means local culture providing meaningful, profitable
    work for people everywhere, work which expresses the diversity of culture, engaged
    with today's issues. Typographic culture falls far short of that: the typefaces
    most people in the West use were designed long ago and/or far away, provided by
    trans-national corporations. There is a role for continuity with the past, but
    it's overdone.\r\nI hope that's not vitriolic.\r\n\r\n>what do you think about
    type designers whose oeuvre is 90% revivals?\r\n\r\nI'm not into finger-pointing
    at individuals, only at TNCs, which are like public institutions. \r\nI've argued,
    on other Typophile threads, that revival is not type design, because it's taking
    credit for someone else's work. But it's not a black and white issue, there are
    many shades of originality.  \r\n\r\nI don't think I've eased up on my cause,
    after all I'm onto Raph's case here. But I have nothing against the guy, it's
    just a philosophical discussion. He made certain statements about \"truth\" which
    I contested, hence the debate -- no vitriol.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 12:24:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">further, that these images are arguably better than either going to the
    metal or choosing individual impressions if one\u2019s goal is creating a faithful
    reproduction. Whether there\u2019s any artistic or design merit in doing so is
    another question altogether,\r\n\r\nThis approach: scientific analysis accurate,
    art marginalized as a gloss.\r\n\r\nIt's not possible to separate the art and
    technology so neatly. The question of what is faithful is a question of design
    belief. \r\nFor instance, there is a quality of sharpness which would be apparent
    in an individual impression, which the average is not faithful to. \r\nThe scientific
    assumption is that what can be accomplished with a bit of technology is better
    than what can't.\r\n\r\n>\"Anybody who intends to generate randomness by arithmetic
    means is, of course, in a state of sin.\u201D\r\n\r\nI said unpredictable, not
    random. A database that constantly changes from day to day is unpredictable, because
    one cannot predict the future. The appearance of the Twin font, driven by the
    weather in Minneapolis, is something that von Neumann would have approved as being
    truly random."
  created: '2005-07-12 13:21:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You can actually see the body of the metal being surrounded by the ink
    gain.\r\n\r\nThis is really interesting to me - could you elaborate?\r\n\r\n>
    revival is not type design\r\n\r\nGot it.\r\n\r\n> The question of what is faithful
    is a question of design belief.\r\n\r\nThis approach: art (expressing myself)
    is what counts,  scientific analysis (or just plain thought, really) an impediment.
    That's not Design. Fear of analysis, minimization of technique, these things prevent
    progress. In a way, shunning analysis is a form of revival, that of ideas, approaches!
    <strong>That</strong> is most certainly not type design. This field is littered
    with people who really don't have the intellectual stamina and curiosity to exceed
    the styles -but also ideas- of the past.\r\n\r\n> there is a quality of sharpness
    which would be apparent in an\r\n> individual impression, which the average is
    not faithful to.\r\n\r\nI don't think you understand what Raph is doing.\r\nAveraging
    isn't necessarily blurry.\r\n\r\nAre you perhaps simply seeing in this the things
    you need to reject it/analysis?\r\n\r\n> The appearance of the Twin font\r\n\r\nI
    was talking about Beowulf.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 16:23:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">This approach: art (expressing myself)...\r\n\r\nThat's not what I had in
    mind. I'm talking about what I do, which is commercial type design, where the
    art and design involved are hand-eye-mind skills. This is what I'm opposing to
    a revival that leans heavily on automated techniques.\r\n \r\nI was thinking more
    of Petr von Blokland's statement \"What can be automated will be automated, what
    cannot be automated is design.\" That defines the disputed territory. I don't
    like to see subtle design skills replaced by crude technology. It's all very well
    to tout averaging as a great new tool, but the averaging idea is not new. I believe
    Adobe Garamond for one, uses it. \r\n\r\nAutomated averaging, used as a design
    platform, is a blunt and facile instrument. As an analytical tool, it really doesn't
    help the (re)designer understand the typeface in the way that looking at a variety
    of instances and drawing one's own composite does. \r\n\r\n>Averaging isn\u2019t
    necessarily blurry. \r\n\r\nWell, I said it wasn't sharp. Usually sharp is contrasted
    with blurry, but in the case of averaging type outlines, what one ends up with
    is not a blur, but a hard edged blob. It's not blurry, but it's not sharp, because
    it has soft corners. \r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t think you understand what Raph is doing.\r\n>Are
    you perhaps simply seeing in this the things you need to reject it/analysis?\r\n\r\nPlease,
    lay off the ad hominen comments.\r\nI'm out of this thread."
  created: '2005-07-12 17:45:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This is what I\u2019m opposing to a revival that leans heavily on automated
    techniques.\r\n\r\nBut that's because of your opposition to literal revivals.\r\nYou're
    confusing the separation between the intent and the methods.\r\n\r\n> \"... what
    cannot be automated is design.\u201D\r\n\r\nThat glosses over the difference between
    Art and Design that I'm trying to address; the difference between self-expression
    and serving others. The former hates analysis, the latter requires it. Considering
    everything else I've read you write, I suspect that's the crux of your rejection
    of Raph's effort. All I'm trying to do is understand, everything, yes using personal
    contexts too. And I do this to improve myself... I need that badly! I'd like to
    understand why people hate/love the things they do, and make the fonts they do,
    sort of like reverse-engineering*, and grasping what's in their heads is a crucial
    key. And I think there's a strong parallel here with revivalism: if you get an
    idea of what the old dead guy was thinking (which is most apparent in the sorts,
    not the sloppy printing of them) you will do a much better job.\r\n\r\n* \"Yucky
    engineers! All they do is ruin our precious painti... I mean typefaces!\"  ;-)\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t like to see subtle design skills replaced by crude technology.\r\n\r\nBut
    this isn't about that. Anybody making a revival should be interested in the original.
    And this technology helps in that. It's really quite obvious. It doesn't replace,
    it guides, that's all. Think of it as an astrolabe.\r\n\r\n> the averaging idea
    is not new.\r\n\r\nWell of course it isn't. Nobody is saying that. Raph's work
    however is a quantum leap.\r\n\r\n> it really doesn\u2019t help the (re)designer
    understand the typeface\r\n\r\n?!\r\nAnd what does, shrooms?\r\n\r\n>  It\u2019s
    not blurry, but it\u2019s not sharp, because it has soft corners.\r\n\r\nRepeat:
    I don't think you're undestanding the technology, and the way to best apply it.\r\n\r\n>
    lay off the ad hominen comments.\r\n\r\n?\r\nIt was a question! Just answer it
    (if you like). Please explain to me what I don't understand about your stance.
    Assuming you <strong>are</strong> interested in defending your views (where a
    tiny bit of self-doubt would help too), as opposed to merely stating them.\r\n\r\nI
    was afraid you'd pull a whine-and-split... How is my questioning more insulting
    than \"revival is not type design\"? You have shades? I'm <strong>Mister</strong>
    Shades!  :-)  As much as I don't have much of a taste for revivalism (and it's
    quite sad that you're trying your darnest to make sure not to appear to be agreeing
    with me on that), I embrace its utility: it puts bread on the table (repeating
    the past/present always does) and it's a form of celebration (and society needs
    that); but just as important is theory/progress, and this is an area where controlling
    one's fear of technology is crucial.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 18:43:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">\u201CYucky engineers! All they do is ruin our precious painti\u2026 I mean
    typefaces!\u201D ;-)\r\n\r\nIs this designist comment really necessary?\r\nWhy
    should I continue with this thread if you're going to fill it with macho \"humour\"?\r\n\r\n>How
    is my questioning more insulting than \u201Crevival is not type design\u201D?\r\n\r\nIt
    wasn't questioning.\r\nIn the first place, you said I don't understand what Raph
    is doing. \r\nThen you suggested I'm seeing things in it that aren't there.\r\nI'm
    not prepared to continue the discussion after being forced into that kind of corner.\r\n\r\n\"Revival
    is not type design\" is not a personal comment, it's a statement of fact. For
    instance, Hnaffe is the designer of Christian Gothic, not Raph."
  created: '2005-07-12 20:06:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why should I continue with this thread if you\u2019re going to fill it
    with macho \u201Chumour\u201D?\r\n\r\nMacho? I'm not macho. Unless you think you're
    a pansy. I don't think you are. And I would think you prefer humor to insults.
    I'm trying to work with you here; but I'm not a cyberpsychotherapist; I could
    never answer that question for you.\r\n\r\n> you said I don\u2019t understand
    what Raph is doing.\r\n\r\nA certain aspect of it, yes. You clearly understand
    the gist of it, and it seems that this is enough to prevent you from trying to
    understand the details, due to what seems to be an aversion to Analysis?\r\n\r\n>
    \u201CRevival is not type design\u201D is not a personal comment, it\u2019s a
    statement of fact.\r\n\r\nHuh, and I thought there were shades.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 20:28:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Raph:\r\n> However, it would be a lot harder to argue that this\r\n> form
    should be considered historically significant.\r\n\r\nAs Peter hints, revivalism
    is complex.\r\n\r\nI would ask: Who is the font for? Other type designers? Quite
    unlikely. What is for example THE Baskerville for the contemporary user? Is it
    JB's original? No way - virtually nobody has seen that. I would argue that it
    is more the impression that people have accumulated over time (a lot like what
    Nick wrote in another thread) from all the Baskervilles they've seen. So for example
    take the \"a\" in Monotype's Baskerville. I find it quite ugly; I would never
    make that on my own. And John Hudson has argued (on the ATypI list) that it's
    not necessarily the historic form. But really, it doesn't matter: it's what people
    know, and my commission is to provide something archetypical. So my revival will
    have that ugliness (just not exactly the same). To me, that's good design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 20:39:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">You clearly understand the gist of it, and it seems that this is enough
    to prevent you from trying to understand to details, due to what seems to be an
    aversion to Analysis?\r\n\r\nHrant, this is the crux of the ad hominen idea that
    was in the other thread recently.\r\nYou shouldn't pursue an argument by saying
    that the other fellow doesn't understand the topic and you do.\r\n\r\n>Macho?
    I\u2019m not macho.\r\n\r\nI didn't say you were macho. I said it was a macho
    comment.\r\n\r\nAs are your frequent quips about \"artistes\" expressing themselves.\r\n\r\n>Unless
    you think you\u2019re a pansy. I don\u2019t think you are.\r\n\r\nThat's not my
    idea of a compliment."
  created: '2005-07-12 20:46:14'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>\u201CRevival is not type design\u201D is not a personal comment, it\u2019s
    a statement of fact.</em>\r\n\r\nNick, I beg to differ. It's simply your opinion.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    revivalists are never given a complete Adobe character set. Foundry types almost
    universally <strong>never</strong> include daggers; section marks; braces; commercial
    ats; math operators; currency symbols other than those of the country in which
    the bodies were cast; or oe and ae dipthongs, eths, thorns or German double-esses.
    In order to include those characters in a font, they have to be <strong>designed</strong>.\r\n\r\nSecond,
    <strong>most</strong> revivalists credit their sources, when they are known: no
    one is trying to hoodwink anyone here. As I have stated before, the whole idea
    behind revivalism is to make typographic resources available to a computerized
    world which heretofore existed only as metal type or handlettering on a page.
    You might not consider the process to be creative, but it is transformational,
    and it requires patience, judgment and an eye for design."
  created: '2005-07-12 20:59:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You shouldn\u2019t pursue an argument by saying that the\r\n> other fellow
    doesn\u2019t understand the topic and you do.\r\n\r\nPursue an argument? I'm communicating
    my view that you're missing something - and I just said you understand the gist
    of it just fine - the details however are important. Are you listening to the
    communications, or just blasting a deeper trench?\r\n\r\n> I didn\u2019t say you
    were macho. I said it was a macho comment.\r\n\r\nBut I said it. It came from
    my head. There you go again compartmentalizing things, removing context. Although
    you didn't do me that favor when I once wrote \"that makes you sound stupid\".
    (You see, Nick, it won't work - not with me.)\r\n\r\n> As are your frequent quips
    about \u201Cartistes\u201D expressing themselves.\r\n\r\nWell, I think they're
    a problem. Would you rather I dispense with the humor? I doubt it. Would you rather
    I shut up? Well, of course. But that ain't gonna happen.\r\n\r\n> That\u2019s
    not my idea of a compliment.\r\n\r\nFortunately, I'm not out to compliment you.\r\nSome
    of your fonts sometimes though, yes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 21:01:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> It\u2019s simply your opinion.\r\n\r\nNo, it's what the word \"design\"
    means.\r\n\r\nThere is a distinction between someone coming up with the idea for
    a typeface, and realizing it in some form or other, and someone else building
    on that idea.\r\n\r\nThe originator designs the <strong>basic pattern</strong>
    of a typeface, and subsequent adapters and revivalists follow that. Following
    a design is not designing, it's interpreting. Nothing wrong with that, but it's
    not design.\r\n\r\nBob Dylan never wrote any guitar solos for \"All Along the
    Watchtower\", but that doesn't make Jimi Hendrix the composer."
  created: '2005-07-12 22:13:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The originator designs the <strong>basic pattern</strong> of a typeface\r\n\r\nYou
    speak of a mythical beast, which exists only in some people's imaginations.\r\nIt
    should be obvious that such \"origination\" is merely an illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 22:17:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">It should be obvious that such \u201Corigination\u201D is merely an illusion.\r\n\r\nEither
    you see it, or you don't."
  created: '2005-07-12 22:37:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>No, it\u2019s what the word \u201Cdesign\u201D means.</em>\r\n\r\nNick,
    I would humbly suggest that the word \"design\" has a certain meaning to you;
    unfortunately, your meaning is not the <em>only</em> meaning the word can have
    . I would also suggest that you check out the <em>Oxford English Dictionary</em>,
    the ultimate reference source for the English language, to see exactly how many
    <em>other</em> possible meanings the word has, very few of which agree with you.
    If you cannot, for a moment, accept the fact that there may be other valid definitions
    of the creative process, I would further suggest that you lay off the nose candy,
    or whatever else it is that gives you the idea that your words carry the same
    authority as, say, the Ten Commandments."
  created: '2005-07-12 23:02:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Concise Oxford English Dictionary\r\n\r\n\"Design: \r\n\r\n1 a. a preliminary
    plan or sketch for the making or production of a building, machine, garment, etc.
    \r\nb. a scheme of lines or shapes forming a pattern or decoration. \r\nc. a plan,
    purpose, or intention. \r\n\r\n4a The general arrangement or layout of a product.
    \r\nb. an established version of a product.\" \r\n\r\nNick Shinn's distinction
    between a design and various interpretations does seem to have a basis in the
    dictionary meaning. Of course, the distinction between a design and an interpretation
    or realization of it is not a sharp one. "
  created: '2005-07-12 23:24:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: I think Christian gothic follows a singular, complex (though definable in
    simple terms) basic pattern, and it can be effectively discerned and described
    with the help of Gerrit Noordzij's type-descriptive protocols. An understanding--and
    faithful digitization--of Christian gothic might benefit as much--if not more--from
    viewing the letterforms through Noordzijian glasses as it will form mechanical
    averaging. The basic pattern might be less shakely a product of the historically
    retro(pro)jective imagination than a putative set of Fleishmannian ideas on readability.
  created: '2005-07-12 23:25:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I would further suggest that you lay off the nose candy, or whatever else
    it is that gives you the idea that your words carry the same authority as, say,
    the Ten Commandments.\r\n\r\nOldnick, I thought you rejected that sort of personal
    attack. "
  created: '2005-07-12 23:32:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, please maintain focus on the content. (Was that Western enough?)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 00:02:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nick, I'm sorry the topic of Is-Revival-Design came up on this thread (Hrant's
    to blame), because Raph has quite rightly said he is digitizing the face, not
    designing it.\r\n\r\n>The basic pattern might be less shakely a product of the
    historically retro(pro)jective imagination than a putative set of Fleishmannian
    ideas on readability.\r\n\r\nThat makes a lot of sense. But it is still a face
    with spotty color. For instance, \"e-n\" and \"e-r\" don't have the same space
    between them. Maybe what it needs in the digital domain is either some fancy kerning,
    or alternate forms (courtesy of OpenType). I can't accept that the poor color
    is a Fleischmannian necessity."
  created: '2005-07-13 00:06:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, it's all my fault. Even the part about you trying to hide your disdain
    for the oeuvre of many accomplished type designers, including some you've recently
    colluded with in attacking me. It's all my fault! Grab your pitchforks and torches!!\r\n\r\n>
    But it is still a face with spotty color. For instance,\r\n> \u201Ce-n\u201D and
    \u201Ce-r\u201D don\u2019t have the same space between them.\r\n\r\nDoes anybody
    literally-revive <strong>spacing</strong>, at the micro level?! Besides Justin
    Howes I mean. Maybe they should? But you certainly can't think so.\r\n\r\n> fancy
    kerning\r\n\r\nFancy?\r\nWhy would it need more than good basic spacing and simple
    kerning?\r\n\r\n> I can\u2019t accept that the poor color is a Fleischmannian
    necessity.\r\n\r\nWait, I don't get it. Are you saying that Fleischmann's work
    has poor color? At the font level?\r\nAnd what does that have to do with this
    again?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm glad you changed your mind about leaving.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 00:18:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Oldnick, I thought you rejected that sort of personal attack.</em>\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    my words were very carefully chosen and they were not an attack on Nick, only
    his definition of \"creativity.\" I am not dissing the man, just challenging some
    of his mistaken notions, which is what lively discussions are supposed to be about.\r\n\r\nUnless
    one possesses the power to say \"Let there be light\" and light does indeed come
    into being where it did not exist before, <strong>nothing</strong> a human being
    does is creative. Rather, if a mere mortal \"creates\" something new and unique,
    it is merely an act of <strong>synthesis</strong>, building on what came before.
    And nowhere is this fact <strong>more</strong> true than in the area of typeface
    design. The basic rules of letterforms are fixed: the design of an A, no matter
    how unique, must suggest, unequivocally, an archetypal A to the viewer of same,
    or the design is utter worthless.\r\n\r\nEqually, unless one is prepared to state--also
    unequivocally--that any nuances one may devise for an alphabet have never, in
    the entire history of mankind, ever been conceived of before (which statement
    must, by necessity, proceed from Divine omniscience), then one cannot legitimately
    claim to be a \"creator,\" when lesser mortals (here read, mere revivalists) are
    not.\r\n\r\nFinally, Nick: enough of the Hrant bashing. I believe that Hrant would
    be the first to admit that, at times in the past, he has gotten a little edgy
    and insulting, but...I believe that, within this particular forum, he has been
    restrained and has offered a lot of constructive criticism and helpful insight.
    You don't have to cut the guy any slack: just give him his due.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 00:26:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Equally, unless one is prepared to state\u2014also unequivocally\u2014that
    any nuances one may devise for an alphabet have never, in the entire history of
    mankind, ever been conceived of before\r\n\r\nNow YOU're sounding Hestonian, Nick.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not about nuances. It's about resolving a unique set of design principles.\r\nBut
    as a matter of fact, I have devised quite a few never-before conceived nuances.\r\nNot
    that they necessarily have any great typographic value, but they are original.\r\n\r\n>trying
    to hide your disdain for the oeuvre of many accomplished type designers,\r\n\r\nSorry,
    is my disdain showing? But really, I don't understand why you'd think I have disdain
    for people who do revivals. There's plenty to admire. Sure, I respect original
    typefaces more, but everyone has their preferences, that doesn't mean they detest
    what they don't adore. Also, while I occasionally deplore the general state of
    affairs (the glass half empty part of it), I'm not going to point fingers at anyone
    (except of course font bundlers), least of all indie foundry designers. When I
    say \"revival is not design\", my purpose is to respect the original designer
    of a typeface -- not to insult the revivalist, but to question their (or a third
    party's) use of the term \"designer\" for the bezier-wrangling.\r\n\r\n>Does anybody
    literally-revive spacing,\r\n\r\nLook at the pairs I mentioned: the extra serif
    on the foot of the \"r\" means that \"e_n\" will create more of a hole in text
    than \"e_r\". This could be solved by kerning, or by a contextual alternate form
    of e with a longer tail.\r\n\r\n>Are you saying that Fleischmann\u2019s work has
    poor color?\r\n\r\nNo, but if Christian Gothic has a divergence of letterforms,
    for Fleischmannian reasons, that's problematic (as is often the case when diverging
    from the norms of centiuries) for text colour.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 02:02:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have devised quite a few never-before conceived nuances.\r\n\r\n1) You
    don't know that.\r\n2) Nuances are such a small part of type design, at least
    in terms of progress. Think more about the structures. But to do that you need...
    analysis! Not mere expression.\r\n3) Nuances can exist just in the \"simple\"
    act of revival too.\r\n\r\n> is my disdain showing?\r\n\r\nNot any more. It used
    to. You seem a lot more careful now. Maybe it's part of becoming mainstream?\r\n\r\n>
    This could be solved by kerning\r\n\r\nWell sure (if the whole is tight enough).
    I was wondering about your \"fancy\"... How many pairs do you typically define
    for let's say basic Latin?\r\n\r\n> if Christian Gothic has a divergence of\r\n>
    letterforms, for Fleischmannian reasons\r\n\r\nWhat are these reasons, exactly?
    I hope you're not sticking with the view that he was an Emigre-style designer.
    <strong>That</strong> would be a reason for his descendants to get pissed.  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    that\u2019s problematic (as is often the case when diverging\r\n> from the norms
    of centiuries) for text colour.\r\n\r\nNo, structural divergence (the important,
    interesting stuff) does not preclude even color.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 03:39:08'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I'm going to gently disagree with Nick on a number of points.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    I believe my averaging technique <em>does</em> produce sharp results, both in
    the sense of edge acuity and curvature at corners. Keep in mind we're looking
    at a 14pt glyph here; on a typical 96dpi screen, that means we're looking at 25x
    magnification, or 50x for the last image I posted.\r\n\r\nSecond, your e_r vs.
    e_n argument doesn't convince me that there's a color problem, for two reasons.
    For one, note that the left serif of the 'r' is shorter than the left serif of
    the 'n', so the stroke is closer in (the distance between the right tip of the
    'e' and the left serif is pretty much the same). That, in turn, balances the perception
    of greater space due to the lack of a projecting lower left serif on the 'n'.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    ideal spacing for a printed page may well not be ideal spacing for an enlargement
    viewed on screen. I've proposed before that as size increases, gaps become relatively
    more important, and distances between stems relatively less. So even if e_n still
    looks a bit gappy to you, that perception may go away completely at actual printed
    size.\r\n\r\nThere are significant differences between the various sizes of this
    font, and these differences have a definite impact on color. I very deliberately
    chose the 14pt size, mostly because I liked its color best. One of the most important
    tasks facing a \"digitizing interpreter\" (or whatever term seems most appropriate)
    is to choose between the various sources available. There's an unhealthy tendency,
    I think, to seek out large sizes for their sharpness and robustness to printing
    variations. The averaging technique has the potential to change this balance,
    and more clearly reveal the cool stuff going on in the smaller sizes.\r\n\r\n<cite>>
    You can actually see the body of the metal being surrounded by the ink gain.\r\n\r\nThis
    is really interesting to me - could you elaborate?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou should be
    to see this fairly clearly in the <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/myfonts/xgothic/s_sharp.png\">last
    image</a> I posted. In particular, at about 5 o'clock, at the thinnest part of
    the stroke, you should be able to see a dark-gray stripe nestled inside a blacker
    outline. I believe the dark-gray is actually a good image of the metal, while
    the outline is composed of ink spread. If so, hopefully I can unlock one of the
    last mysteries in my quest to understand ATF's optical scaling, to wit the relative
    contribution to thickening from the pantograph and the ink spread on printing.
    I'm looking forward to getting some time to refine my techniques so I can capture
    even clearer images - the ones I've posted here are still a bit murkier than I'd
    like, especially for visualizing these more subtle aspects.\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    hopefully we can dispense with much of the flamewar on this thread, as I am indeed
    not making any particular claims to creativity. The main reasons I'm doing this
    font are to learn more, and to refine my tools. I feel good about the progress
    on those goals even if this font is never used for anything other than the nameplate
    on the front door of my new apartment.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 06:38:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant:\r\n\r\n>> I have devised quite a few never-before conceived nuances.\r\n>1)
    You don\u2019t know that.\r\n\r\nYes I do. Admittedly I haven't seen every font
    ever made, but I feel reasonably sure that I would have come across certain things
    if they had been done previously. Such as an oldstyle italic monowidth unicase
    font, for instance. (A structural concept, but one requiring considerable nuancing
    to execute.)\r\n\r\n>You seem a lot more careful now.\r\n\r\nHopefully one learns
    from one's mistakes. Type designers can be extremely sensitive to even the most
    objectively couched analysis, which coming from a peer can seem a bit high and
    mighty.\r\n\r\n>I was wondering about your \u201Cfancy\u201D\r\n\r\nJust the idea
    that an e_n kern might be useful.\r\n\r\n>structural divergence (the important,
    interesting stuff) does not preclude even color.\r\n\r\nWell, that's the big challenge,
    isn't it.\r\n\r\n\r\nRaph:\r\n\r\n>sharp results, both in the sense of edge acuity
    and curvature at corners.\r\n\r\nI don't see that. In the original scan there
    are a number of sharp features, even at the low resolution. It may be uncertain
    as to which are parts of the design and which are artefacts (and averaging would
    differentiate), but nonetheless, there is a quality of sporadic sharpness (aka
    sparkle?) to the individual impression, which disappears in the average.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    consider that the quality of different pieces of type will vary, both in mint
    condition and through varying wear. An average is less than top quality. In the
    same way, certain imprssions will be \"sweeter\" than others, due to slight variations
    in paper and inking. Again, the average dulls the best quality, and it is up to
    the discriminating eye to discern what is best. \r\n\r\nThe e_r vs. e_n space:
    the absence of a lower left serif on the 'n\" creates a baseline opening between
    the letters, so although the fit is slightly tighter, it allows contigual white
    space to interupt the x-height's evenness.\r\n\r\n>So even if e_n still looks
    a bit gappy to you, that perception may go away completely at actual printed size.\r\n\r\nI've
    designed many text faces, and took that into account.\r\n\r\n>my quest to understand
    ATF\u2019s optical scaling\r\n\r\nWhy don't you work with a face where you also
    have access to the metal type? Then you could compare that with the impression,
    rather than deduce it.\r\n\r\n>hopefully we can dispense with much of the flamewar
    \r\n\r\nI apologize for inadverently flaming you, as a result of my ongoing headbutting
    with Hrant. What you're doing is fascinating, and creative, and throws a number
    of philosophical design issues into the spotlight."
  created: '2005-07-13 12:37:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>...as a matter of fact, I have devised quite a few never-before conceived
    nuances.</em>\r\n\r\nI am utterly flabbergasted. That <strong>statement</strong>
    is, at the very least, rather provincial and narrow-minded, although \"pompous,\"
    \"self-serving\" and \"incredibly arrogant\" work well, too. And, <strong>please
    notice</strong> that these comments are directed at the <strong>statement</strong>,
    nor the stater.\r\n\r\nNick, you continue to confuse <em>fact</em> and <em>opinion</em>.
    You are welcome to state your opinions, but please do not elevate them to the
    status of irrefutable truth, especially when the strongest case you can make for
    the statements is, \"Because I say so.\"\r\n\r\nAs difficult for you as it may
    be, you have to come to terms with the old saw that there are few things <em>really
    new</em> under the sun. The wheel was a marvelous invention, but it was not without
    precedent in the natural world. Similarly, there were anthills before there were
    pyramids, water droplets before there were telescopes, and supernovas before there
    were atomic bombs.\r\n\r\nI do not believe that anyone else here is belittling
    the kind of type design you pursue--in fact, I believe you have received praise
    for it from some unlikely quarters. So, please, don't belittle the kind of type
    design that other people pursue, simply because it doesn't fit your <em>opinion</em>
    of what a type designer should do."
  created: '2005-07-13 12:44:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">So, please, don\u2019t belittle the kind of type design that other people
    pursue, simply because it doesn\u2019t fit your opinion of what a type designer
    should do.\r\n\r\nNick, I'm not belittling anybody, brush that chip off your shoulder.\r\nYou're
    criticizing me for daring to claim some originality for some of my work.\r\nThe
    onus is not on me to prove originality, but on you to disprove it.\r\n\"The proof
    of a hypothesis is failing to disprove it.' (Popper)\r\nSo I challenge you, show
    me another oldstyle italic monowidth unicase font (Panoptica Italic).\r\n\r\n>And,
    please notice that these comments are directed at the statement, nor the stater.\r\n\r\nWho
    are you kidding?\r\n\r\n>there are few things really new under the sun.\r\n\r\nNonsense.
    There are new inventions all the time, including typefaces.\r\nThe principle that
    separates a collection of reused parts from an amalgam that becomes something
    new is that of emergence, where the whole is smarter than the sum of the parts:\r\n\r\nhttp://encyclopedia.laborlawtalk.com/Emergence\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 13:24:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>The onus is not on me to prove originality, but on you to disprove it</em>.\r\n\r\nNick,
    Sir Karl Popper notwithstanding, with an attitude like that, you might want to
    consider a side career in civil litigation. I understand that it's far more lucrative
    than type design.\r\n\r\n<em>...show me another oldstyle italic monowidth unicase
    font (Panoptica Italic</em>.\r\n\r\nYou win: in the face of your monumental and
    unprecedented accomplishments, who am I--a lesser mortal (and a bottom-feeding
    revivalist, to boot)--to question your authority?\r\n\r\nEmergence, synergy, same
    difference: they both describe a <em>synthetic</em> process, not a creative one.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 13:55:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick Shinn, the quote from Popper is not completely accurate, though the
    spirit is right. Popper would say that failure to refute is the best test or \"corroboration\"
    of a theory. He held that proof, in the strict sense, is only possible in mathematics.
    Scientific theories always are open to refutation and modification by new evidence.
    \r\n\r\nOldNick, I am baffled by your view that my earlier quote from you is not
    a personal attack on Nick Shinn. And I can't see anything in Nick S's comments
    that implies that he has God-like powers.  \r\n\r\nI do see ad hominem arguments
    coming from Hrant, but this is expected, as Hrant has defended them as legitimate.
    \r\n\r\nBut I am quite surprised to see them coming from you, as you started a
    thread about proper discussion rules. I have taught introductory university courses
    on logic, so I am aware of the issues here. Of course I am not claiming any special
    authority on these matters, and can be wrong and often have been. "
  created: '2005-07-13 14:38:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">a synthetic process, not a creative one\r\n\r\nWell yes, type design is
    a synthetic endeavor, but I believe it can occasionally be creative and original,
    even if you don't.\r\nNot wanting to provoke further personal sarcastic remarks,
    let's just agree to differ."
  created: '2005-07-13 15:19:31'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Not wanting to provoke further personal sarcastic remarks, let\u2019s
    just agree to differ.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's fine with me, and please forgive the
    sarcasm: it was an unfortunate lapse, but at least it proved effective in gaining
    the concession it sought, namely: you have your opinions, I have mine, and each
    is entitled to his own.\r\n\r\nWilliam, I think these forums benefit immensely
    from the insights and background you provide, and I am pleased to have learned
    a few things from them along the way. Thank you."
  created: '2005-07-13 16:27:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Hopefully one learns from one\u2019s mistakes.\r\n\r\nOr refines one's
    dodging skills.\r\n\r\n> Type designers can be extremely sensitive\r\n\r\nThey
    have to get over it.\r\nThat's one difference between a craftsman and an artist.\r\n\r\n>
    Well, that\u2019s the big challenge, isn\u2019t it.\r\n\r\nNo, not really. A much
    bigger challenge is to find the <strong>limits</strong> of even color (no matter
    if the structures are conventional or innovative).\r\n\r\n> the quality of different
    pieces of type will vary\r\n\r\nSure, but that's the best that can be done. If
    one had access to the original punches, that would be even better, but that's
    pretty rare.\r\n\r\n> the average dulls the best quality\r\n\r\nYou're not paying
    attention. The average provides information as to what the original was, <strong>then</strong>
    you can decide what to do with it. Especially considering that offset printing
    is so regular, it's pretty artificial to fake things the way you're proposing.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019ve designed many text faces\r\n\r\nOur definitions of \"text face\" vary.
    (Was that Western enough?)\r\n\r\n> Why don\u2019t you work with a face where
    you also have access to the metal type?\r\n\r\nObviously because:\r\n1) He likes
    <strong>this</strong> one.\r\n2) His averaging technique gets you 90% there.\r\n\r\n>
    What you\u2019re doing is fascinating, and creative, and\r\n\r\nUseful. To a craftsman.\r\n\r\n>
    The onus is not on me to prove originality, but on you to disprove it.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not a court of law, but one of public opinion.\r\nMore than making claims,
    you need to know your limits.\r\n\r\n> Who are you kidding?\r\n\r\nThe same people
    you were trying to?\r\n\r\n> a side career in civil litigation.\r\n\r\nIn England.\r\n\r\n>
    I do see ad hominem arguments coming from Hrant\r\n\r\nAnd what we see from you
    again is stirring trouble, as an excuse to constantly remind us of how Typophile
    <strong>should</strong> be just like you think it should. Let it be - give up
    your cherished Control. Work on the content.\r\n\r\n> I have taught introductory
    university courses on logic\r\n\r\nJust don't teach one about behavior in a heterogenous
    society, please.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nYou know what's the most comical though? Somebody
    who refutes Analysis but wants to apply The Scientific Principle to defend his
    work.\r\n\r\nThe core of this argument directly concerns the textbook struggle
    between Art and Design, between expression and function, between the self and
    others. It will never end.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 16:35:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This topic of 'original work' vs. 'nothing new under the sun' has come up
    before & with  similar results - some lean one way & some another. Nobody is willing
    to be absolutist about it when pressed. Not even old nick. It's a question of
    attitude. Some of us think that artistes are prima donnas & some folks think they
    can be if they want to. Personally - I want. Without the hope of making something
    better - why try? Even with a revival. Want to tell me how to do it better? Great.
    That's what I am here for. To learn as much as possible.\r\n\r\nEven though this
    thread has been overly rancourous - (nose candy? good golly.) - I have still learned
    a lot from the arguement. Thank you. <b>Really</b>.\r\n\r\nThis thread has only
    sporadically dealt with Ralph's work. I think it's interesting and probably useful.
    But the best proof of that will come when it is applied to a face. Then we will
    see for ourselves how useful this technique was for Ralph."
  created: '2005-07-13 16:41:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">give up your cherished Control\r\n\r\nHrant, I am happy when I can control
    myself. I do not suffer from any delusions that I can control Typophile, and I
    have no wish to do so in any case. \r\n\r\nI have a long standing wish to see
    less rancor on this wonderful site, but have concluded that it isn't going to
    happen."
  created: '2005-07-13 17:52:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, you say: \"The core of this argument directly concerns the textbook
    struggle between Art and Design, between expression and function, between the
    self and others.\" I want to ask, which argument? The one about averaging? Can
    it truly be said the the choice for or against averaging is tantamount to a binary
    choice between the self and others. And what about the flow of personal jabs,
    sarcasm and more. How do they fit on this scale of the struggle between the self
    and others? (I say this with some hesitation, because every posting, this one
    included, lies somewhere on that spectrum.)\r\n\r\nAren't you running the risk
    of forcing a considerable range of mostly ad hoc* opinions into two too sharply
    segregated and 'occupational ethically'  or 'occupational honourability' loaded
    boxes? \r\n\r\nIt seems to me this encourages a jaded habit of listening, an ecology
    of misrepresentation, a hermeneutics of suspicion and an unnecessary balkanization
    of typecultural subcultures.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 17:54:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Or refines one\u2019s dodging skills.\r\n\r\nNot shooting; surely not the
    same as making a smaller target?\r\n\r\n>That\u2019s one difference between a
    craftsman and an artist.\r\n\r\nHave pity on the thin-skinned artisan.\r\n\r\n>A
    much bigger challenge is to find the limits of even color.\r\n\r\nWe've been there,
    done that -- ITC and Typsettra faces of the 1970s, generally considered too grey,
    today.\r\n\r\n>You\u2019re not paying attention.\r\n\r\nNo, you're not paying
    attention.\r\n\r\n>Our definitions of \u201Ctext face\u201D vary.\r\n\r\nMy definition:
    when I design a typeface, unless it's specifically a display face, I test prototypes
    in text settings to refine the color. I look at the fonts in sizes from 6 to 14
    pt, in different column widths, ragged and justified, tight and open leading.
    On a couple of newspaper fonts, I've tested prototypes on newsprint. As I said,
    I've designed many text faces: Beaufort, Bodoni Egyptian, Brown, Fontesque Text,
    Goodchild, Merlin, Oneleigh, Paradigm, Shinn Sans, Richler, Worldwide. All these
    fonts come with sidebearings wide enough, and apertures open enough, for text
    setting. Some of them turned out with better text colour than others, obviously,
    and Merlin is a bit of a stretch as a text face (the Italic is better than the
    roman, actually), but they were all designed primarily as text faces. Your definition?
    \r\n\r\n>Obviously because:\r\n\r\nMindreading again?\r\n\r\n>Useful. To a craftsman.\r\n\r\nTherefore,
    all those who make fonts.\r\n\r\n>The same people you were trying to?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not making personal sarcastic remarks and passing them off as fair comment.\r\n\r\n>In
    England.\r\n\r\nMore of a US thing.\r\n\r\n>stirring trouble\r\n\r\nFrom you,
    ha!\r\n\r\n>Somebody who refutes Analysis \r\n\r\nHuh? I offer a critique of an
    anaytical method, and you respond with \"You don't understand.\" Take a look at
    Raph's raw scan side-by-side with his averaged outcome: the quality of sharpness
    has gone missing. This issue is not especially obvious in the \"S\",  but in the
    joint of the \"n\", where the hairline joins the main stem, it will be quite problematic.
    \r\n\r\n>the textbook struggle between Art and Design, between expression and
    function, between the self and others. \r\n\r\nI wish you'd stop laying this \"art/expression/selfish\"
    trip on me. I'm assessing the technical aspects of this font, and Raph's averaging
    technique, from my experience as a type designer/craftsman, making fonts that
    I sell for a living, which the people who buy use to set type. The dichotomy that
    interests me is between handcraft and automation, and where the boundary falls. "
  created: '2005-07-13 17:59:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'Nick, you say: "The dichotomy that interests me is between handcraft and
    automation". Bringing my previous remarks about dichotomies into the handcraft
    / automation arena: Isn''t your problem with averaging that it averages, not that
    is automated? Posterizing could solve the indistinctness_of_the_countour problem.
    This might be a useful starting point for autotracing, but this wouldn''t necessarily
    preculude craft decisions about normalizing brezier curves and the rest. Such
    normalization, if that is the best word for it, would occur probably in conversation
    with the actual range of impressions, including its outliers and relevant similar
    features in role-architecturally similar components as much as in conversation
    with the averaged item.'
  created: '2005-07-13 18:32:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> But the best proof of that will come when it is applied to a face.\r\n\r\nI
    agree, although I would caution against the term \"proof\". Since this is not
    a science, some people will always see what they want. Like the pen in Legato.\r\n\r\n>
    Can it truly be said the the choice for or against averaging\r\n> is tantamount
    to a binary choice between the self and others.\r\n\r\nNo, humans are not binary.
    But concepts are \"pure\". We're each always in the middle, along different points
    on the \"axes\" of opposites. A person's aversion to or admiration for Raph's
    technique is an aspect of the argument of Art versus Design. And the reason to
    address the pure extremes is that I think it's the only way to understand the
    middle.\r\n\r\n> Not shooting; surely not the same as making a smaller target?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know, Nick, what else to call avoidance of direct questions, and answers
    that don't tell the whole picture, or sometimes not even the central point?\r\n\r\nThe
    way not to be a target is not to feel like one; or maybe not to <strong>want</strong>
    to be one...\r\n\r\n> We\u2019ve been there, done that \u2014 ITC and Typsettra
    faces\r\n> of the 1970s, generally considered too grey, today.\r\n\r\nWe haven't
    done jack. Admitting that some fonts are too gray only tells us there's an issue.
    Yippee. Introducing variance in typographic color for aesthetic effect (color
    hooliganism?) is child's play. I'm talking about function here.\r\n\r\nWe have
    no idea what we're doing. We don't even grasp Familiarity!! Have we \"arrived\"?
    Laughable. We've only arrived at a mundane, crass place. Let's leave.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019ve designed many text faces\r\n\r\nIt doesn't matter how many times you
    repeat it, Nick.\r\n\r\nAlso: almost anybody can make a text face imitatively.
    When you know a model works, because it has for so long, aping it to arrive at
    yet another text face is... not type design?  :-)\r\n\r\n> I offer a critique
    of an anaytical method\r\n\r\nThat was not critique, that was rejection.\r\nAnd
    you do it all the time; just like you did with Larson.\r\n\r\n> Merlin is a bit
    of a stretch as a text face\r\n\r\nRiiight.\r\n\r\nI can't wait to see Eunoia-Text
    used for a book.\r\n\r\n> Your definition?\r\n\r\nI'm working on it. No actually,
    I'm working on the <strong>fonts</strong>, not the definition. But I do know when
    I see one that isn't.\r\n\r\n> Therefore, all those who make fonts.\r\n\r\nTo
    different degrees, yes. Each of us has both the artist and the craftsman in him.
    It becomes a matter of honesty, and selflessness. Somebody who's a readability
    relativist is closer to the Art end of the axis than somebody who spends years
    reasearching and thinking about the very real mechanics of human cognition.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    are you now saying that Raph's technique is useful to all those who make fonts?
    If you were making a literal revival (even if you'd probably have to be commissioned
    to do so) and you had it freely available to you, would you use it?\r\n\r\n> the
    quality of sharpness has gone missing.\r\n\r\nI think you're seeing what you want
    to see.\r\n\r\n> I wish you\u2019d stop laying this \u201Cart/expression/selfish\u201D
    trip on me.\r\n\r\nAnd I wish you'd shed your aversion to technique.\r\n\r\nNow
    what?\r\n\r\n> making fonts that I sell for a living\r\n\r\nWhich is opposed to
    progress. Don't worry, I do it too - we're all human. The difference is some of
    us admit it.\r\n\r\n> The dichotomy that interests me is between handcraft\r\n>
    and automation, and where the boundary falls.\r\n\r\nWorry more about the mind
    than the hand.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 18:38:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> I agree, although I would caution against the term \u201Cproof\u201D. Since
    this is not a science, some people will always see what they want. Like the pen
    in Legato\r\n\r\nMaybe I meant proof as in a smoke proof. :-) Certainly not as
    in a scientific proof ( which is also subject to revisting after all and is just
    a prepondernace of current evidence). I just mean the evidence to know if it has
    value isn't all there yet. And when it is it's up to each of us to judge or to
    hold off & continue being skeptically interested & maybe hopeful. What is being
    discussed now is a technique. I just mean trhat the value of that technique can
    be judged later on by it's resulting product. Via Ralph in this case. Or maybe
    via sombody else later. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-13 19:26:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Worry more about the mind than the hand.\r\n\r\nThank-you for those words
    of wisdom, great guru."
  created: '2005-07-14 01:17:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nI got cited for sarcasm, and it was a fair cop. It isn't pretty
    when you do it, either.\r\n\r\nIf you're really harbor such animosity toward Hrant,
    might I suggest that, at next year's TypeCon, you two arrange a Steel Cage Death
    Match, \"pro\" wrestling style, no holds barred. The winner could probably retire
    comfortable on the proceeds from ticket sales."
  created: '2005-07-14 13:57:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">If you\u2019re really harbor such animosity toward Hrant\r\n\r\nSorry, I'm
    not into hate. \r\nIt's just a forum, and we wouldn't keep dancing if we didn't
    enjoy each other's company.\r\n\r\n>BTW, are you now saying that Raph\u2019s technique
    is useful to all those who make fonts? If you were making a literal revival (even
    if you\u2019d probably have to be commissioned to do so) and you had it freely
    available to you, would you use it?\r\n\r\nI mean useful in principle. I can't
    go beyond that, as the tool is still in development. It might be something that
    I could use in the future, but I can't say how. New tools aren't always used for
    their intended purposes.\r\n\r\nAt the moment, I'm working on a revival, but taking
    a quite opposite approach. I've scanned and traced glyphs in the past, but the
    method I'm now using is a magnifying glass to look at the printed image, and bezier-drawing
    the glyphs \"by eye\". Right brain analysis."
  created: '2005-07-14 16:09:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019m now using is a magnifying glass to look at the printed image,
    and bezier-drawing the glyphs \u201Cby eye\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\njust curious...
    is this the first time you've used this method?\r\n\r\nand oldnick, there's a
    much more interesting challenge outstanding between nick and hrant: some of us
    are waiting to see what will become of Eunoia Text."
  created: '2005-07-14 16:14:14'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>...we wouldn\u2019t keep dancing if we didn\u2019t enjoy each other\u2019s
    company.</em>\r\n\r\nForgive me: I can be a little dense at time. Here, I thought
    I was watching Ail and Frazer, when all along it's been George and Martha.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m
    now using...a magnifying glass to look at the printed image, and bezier-drawing
    the glyphs \u201Cby eye\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI suppose there's just enough neo-Ludditism
    in that particular approach to revivalism to qualify it as novel.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 17:07:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't think it is novel at all\u2026 that is how many revive old letterforms.
    Again it has to do with whether you want to reuse old forms exactly as they might
    have been, or if you want to capture their idea and use that in a previously unseen
    manner. \r\n\r\nHow Nick Shinn interprets old type is probably much more interesting
    for font users than getting old glyphs mapped to a keyboard driver would be.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-14 17:22:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> George and Martha\r\n\r\nJust remember, I'm the macho one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 17:37:12'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>How Nick Shinn interprets old type is probably much more interesting
    for font users than getting old glyphs mapped to a keyboard driver would be.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    am sure that's true; it's the \"magnifying glass\" thing I find quaint.  \r\n\r\n<em>Just
    remember, I\u2019m the macho one.</em>\r\n\r\nThere was never a doubt in my mind..."
  created: '2005-07-14 18:06:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">is this the first time you\u2019ve used this method?\r\n\r\nIt's the first
    time I've used a magnifying glass, and it's the first time I've made an \"exact\"
    facsimile. (From a 12 pt text setting in an 1869 book.)\r\nMy previous revivals
    were more interpretative, and my source material was much larger, from specimen
    books usually.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m the macho one.\r\n\r\nTake your pick.\r\n\r\nhttp://members.tripod.com/~npaulette/fredgene.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://www.xs4all.nl/~junglist/id55.htm\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 18:11:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">it\u2019s the \u201Cmagnifying glass\u201D thing I find quaint.\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I should have used the correct term, \"loupe\"."
  created: '2005-07-14 18:16:01'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>bezier-drawing the glyphs \u201Cby eye\u201D</em>\r\n\r\ndo you usually
    draw directly on the computer?"
  created: '2005-07-14 18:23:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">do you usually draw directly on the computer?\r\n\r\nYes. The last typeface
    I drew/wrote on paper and then scanned was Oneleigh, 1998. (except for Panoptica
    script). However, I often work out design ideas with pen and paper, without scanning
    these investigative sketches."
  created: '2005-07-14 18:33:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Isn't the conscious introduction of \"uncertainty\" artificial?\r\n\r\nThe
    first outline font I made was a process of looking closely (no magnifying glass)
    at a classic Armenian metal face, and recreating the forms directly in bezier...
    on a grid! A slanted grid!! Needless to say, it came out like crap. The two reasons
    for this [process] were that: I didn't know that I didn't have the talent to do
    it, and didn't know the dark side of the grid; and that I didn't have a scanner.
    But it wasn't artificial. Not using available tools though is too... artsy :-)
    for me.\r\n\r\nBTW, do you have a photo of two guys banging harps?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 18:53:19'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Sorry, I should have used the correct term, \u201Cloupe\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    \"loupe\" certainly doesn't conjure up visions of deerstalker hats and calabash
    pipes in the same way that \"magnifying glass\" does, but that's not really the
    point. I inferred, and I believe you implied, that there is something unique in
    the method you have chosen to undertake this project which sets it apart from
    the methods of other revivalists. I am fairly confident that even those revivalists
    who scan and autotrace their character have to draw the missing characters and
    subject them to the same conversion process as their \"found\" characters, so
    that all of the characters in their fonts retain the same rough edges. In the
    process, they too are using their eyes <em>and</em> their hands. So, your approach
    is unique because...?\r\n\r\nNick, you have an impressive body of work which speaks
    for itself: you don't need to prove anything. So, please, quit trying."
  created: '2005-07-14 19:46:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Peter:\r\n\r\n>Isn\u2019t your problem with averaging that it averages, not
    that is automated? Posterizing could solve the indistinctness_of_the_countour
    problem.\r\n\r\nNo, that would change (opposite of sharp) blurry to (opposite
    of sharp) smooth. Still not sharp.\r\n\r\nMy general awareness of averaging is
    that it highlights certain information at the expense of other information. For
    instance, if you average an 80-10-90 triangle and a 10-80-90 triangle, you end
    up with a 45-45-90 triangle, losing the quality of sharpness.\r\n\r\nHrant:\r\n\r\n>Isn\u2019t
    the conscious introduction of \u201Cuncertainty\u201D artificial?\r\n\r\nThat's
    what I'm saying: the inherent uncertainty of averaging (a refined form of guesswork)
    is artificial. It creates a slightly vague simulacrum of the original. Drawing
    a purposeful interpretation is more \"genuine\".\r\n\r\n>Not using available tools
    though is too\u2026 artsy :-) for me.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say that a selected use
    of more traditional techniques is peculiarly artsy, because a lot of modern artists
    have abandoned the traditional tools, these last 30 or so years. Also, drawing
    was a technique used by all designers, including engineers, as Michael Harvey
    pointed out in his talk at TypeCon2004. "
  created: '2005-07-14 21:24:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think not using the available tools (very different than using an imperfect
    tool - as all tools are however) is a lot like those cheesy \"weathered\" fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 21:40:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I believe you implied, that there is something unique in the method you
    have chosen to undertake this project\r\n\r\nHuh?. In response to Hrant's question
    of whether I would use Raph's averager, I just described how I was doing a revival
    at the moment in a somewhat opposite fashion. You're the one that said it was
    novel, and then Dan said it was how many people did it. \r\n \r\n>Nick, you have
    an impressive body of work which speaks for itself: \r\n\r\nThanks, your work
    is pretty cool too. I particularly like all the bizarre letterforms, that's an
    interest we share.\r\n\r\n>you don\u2019t need to prove anything. So, please,
    quit trying.\r\n\r\nNick, I'm hesitant to talk about my work for fear of grandstanding,
    but I post to Typophile a lot, so I think it's OK to mention it once in a while,
    particularly if someone asks me about it.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 21:58:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I think not using the available tools ... is a lot like those cheesy \u201Cweathered\u201D
    fonts.\r\n\r\nI don't understand what you mean by available. Surely a loupe is
    just as available as a scanner? "
  created: '2005-07-14 22:14:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Purposefully introducing \"infidelity\" is... not type design?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 22:19:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">you don\u2019t need to prove anything. So, please, quit trying.\r\n\r\nIs
    it the icon that's bothering you? I would ask the artist to redo it with a slightly
    less imperious expression, but I need that to bolster my ego for taking on Hrant."
  created: '2005-07-14 22:23:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but I need that to bolster my ego for taking on Hrant.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-15 01:14:14'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Nick wrote: <em>This issue is not especially obvious in the \u201CS\u201D,
    but in the joint of the \u201Cn\u201D, where the hairline joins the main stem,
    it will be quite problematic.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think the <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/myfonts/xgothic/n_enh.png\">image</a>
    fully supports this assertion. Ink does tend to pool a bit at such joins, but
    that is the nature of letterpress printing. In any case, you can fairly clearly
    see that it's ink rather than metal in this image, because the ink is imaged darker
    than the adjacent metal impression.\r\n\r\nI don't know what you're able to see
    here, but to me it's as if I were seeing images from the Hubble Space Telescope
    for the first time, and some of the people around me were saying, \"but the atmospheric
    variation is part of the experience of viewing stars. Would you deny the romance
    embodied in \"twinkle twinkle little star\" in your embrace of cold space-based
    telescopes?\" Screw that. My goal is to see what's going on as clearly as possible,
    and it's clear to me that the averaging technique is useful for that."
  created: '2005-07-15 06:35:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ">My goal is to see what\u2019s going on as clearly as possible, and it\u2019s
    clear to me that the averaging technique is useful for that.\r\n\r\nLooking at
    what was there 'clearly' may or may not be best served by your technique. Cool
    as it is. And it is cool I think! Very cool. After you post more stuff more folks
    may be convinced. I am about half way there. I might still rather look at 30 or
    300 specimens on paper & judge what I think is best in them... or by looking directly
    at metal if I had it. Clearly you have something there. If it's the metal I don't
    know. Even if it isn't showing the metal it might be a great tool anyway for other
    reasons.\r\n\r\nBut then, what happens AFTER your find or develop a clear reference.
    If you have an absolutely ideal reference set - with punches even; still, you
    still have to decide if you are going to be slavishly litteral to whatever source
    or reinterpret using whatever technique of hand or mind. No matter what tools
    or techniques you use you still have to make some judgements about the digitization.
    And no matter your intentions some elements your chosen process will impact the
    results even if it's only because it shapes or influences your thought. Those
    two things will both influence the product. This is the part that I still find
    most interesting.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which, how do you plan to use your averaged
    & processed image? Will you import into illustrator & draw a vector over it so
    you can see your greyscale image? \r\n\r\nWhat is your intent for that line? Do
    you want to get the metal & then let a little ink into your outline? Like in the
    joint of the n? Or is it the technique of finding the metal hidden in the impressions
    that is dearer to you? \r\n\r\nWhat would anybody else do? I understand the idea
    of looking for the spirit of the thing - but let's say you have a perfect metal
    specimen plus lots of impressions - Then what? Nick S, you say you are drawing
    by eye - I can imagine it causes you to look more closely at shapes & be less
    rote in your construction. Sort of like doing a 'Countour Drawing' of a nude figure
    in art school. It forces you to be more deliberate - not looking down at the paper.
    I am I intuiting what your up to there? Hrant- what's your technique? Dan? Old
    Nick?\r\n\r\nSpill some more beans please. :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 08:10:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I don\u2019t know what you\u2019re able to see here,\r\n\r\nI'm seeing what
    I anticipated, which is that while the technique is excellent along the main stretches,
    it is not much help at sharp corners -- the top left and right corners, the bottom
    right corner, and the inside joint. At these points interpretation is required,
    and that interpretation will determine much of the character of the revival.\r\n\r\nTo
    continue your analogy of the Hubble: If one is familiar with metal type, one has
    already been to the stars, and knows what they look like. So one is able to filter
    out the haze when looking at them from afar. \r\n\r\nEben: well said. It's waay
    cool, but what happens next, and how does this change that?\r\n\r\n>am I intuiting
    what your up to there?\r\n\r\nSort of. I went to the loupe because on this particular
    face I wasn't having much success with other techniques. I've long believed that
    a metal-to-digital, letterpress-to-offset revival is about (re)creating an effect,
    so there's lots of scope for how you do it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 12:23:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'Raph, I alluded to this earlier, and I''m still wondering: have you tried
    to penetrate the ''ductal logic'' underlying the Christian Gothic letterforms?
    That is, doing the ''frontal arithmatic". '
  created: '2005-07-15 14:06:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>a jaded habit of listening, an ecology of misrepresentation, a hermeneutics
    of suspicion and an unnecessary balkanization of typecultural subcultures...outliers
    and relevant similar features in role-architecturally similar components...ductal
    logic...frontal arithmatic</em> (sic)\r\n\r\nPeter,\r\n\r\nYou have made several
    comments in this forum that I have found rather puzzling; perhaps others have,
    perhaps not--I can only speak for myself. In any event, may I suggest that erudition
    which elucidates is always welcome and appreciated, whereas erudition which obfuscates
    doesn't really contribute a lot. In other words: fewer three-dollar words, a little
    more clarity."
  created: '2005-07-15 15:18:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">an ecology of misrepresentation\r\n\r\nBeing a liberal who is regularly
    and infuriatingly labelled fascist by Hrant, this phrase struck me as delightful,
    hilarious, and apt. \r\n\r\nPeter's rhetorical style was the subject of a lengthy
    <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/9736\">discussion</a>.\r\n\r\nOn topic:
    I think Raph's technique can be very useful in analysing old typefaces, and so
    could be helpful to others as well. \r\n\r\nHowever, I do feel that strict copies
    of faces, particularly pre-20th century, are less useful than revivals that use
    past designs, but add some creative input to make them more suitable and desirable
    for today.  "
  created: '2005-07-15 15:40:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Peter, \r\n\r\nFar be it from me to risk entanglement with the bourgeouis
    linguistic circumlocutions (Laban et al, 1965) of Vieux Nicolas, but if I might
    be permitted to add my tuppence ha'penny, it's six of one and half a dozen of
    the other, ennit? Stick with the tour, buddy. "
  created: '2005-07-15 15:52:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "enne son - Yes, What is this ductal logic & frontal artithmatic?\r\n\r\nNick
    S - can you describe more of the scope? Maybe show us an in process example glyph?
    A few more beans please!"
  created: '2005-07-15 16:17:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">more of the scope?\r\n\r\nSorry, I can't show this face just yet.\r\nAnd
    the way things are going with the number of glyphs required for OT fonts these
    days, it will be several years down the road. On the bright side, screen resolution
    will have improved by then, so I won't have to worry about hinting it.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I meant by scope was that there are many different ways to repurpose a type design,
    both by different techniques, and different intentions. For instance, compare
    (digital) Bauer Bodoni with ITC Bodoni and Fiosofia. "
  created: '2005-07-15 16:30:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Ductal logic: Ductus is the path the writing implement makes in forming a
    letter. Typefaces are formed by other tools than the (broadnibbed or flexical)
    pen, but the contrast patterns of the shapes that are constructed in type traditionally
    paraphrase the shapes formed by the stroke of the pen. Every typeface that deliberately
    imitates the broadnibbed pen has (or borrows) a ductal logic. This can be more
    or less worked out and more or less consistently followed.\r\n\r\nIn Gerrit Noordzij's
    type descriptive scheme we can think of the marks left by the broad edge of the
    pen as a moving front of points. The moving front of points can proceed straightforwardly
    without modification (translation) or can expand in response to increased pressure
    of the writing tool as it moves, or it can rotate as it moves. The path followed
    can include penlifts or proceed without penlifts from stroke to stroke. Figuring
    all this out in relation to a typeface, I call 'doing the frontal arithmetic'.
    \r\n\r\nMy use of the term 'role architecture' in describing parts of letterforms
    and how they combine goes back to a Douglas Hofstadter essay in Visible Language
    on Donald Knuth's concept of a Metafont. It has its uses, but I admit, it can
    stand in the way of clarity for those who aren't familiar with it. I don't think
    it obfuscates.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I need to construct Wikipedia definitions for some
    of these pet terms.\r\n\r\nThe other phrases I leave for now."
  created: '2005-07-15 16:51:44'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em> bourgeouis linguistic circumlocutions...</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for sharing
    that, Nick: it's a nicely turned phrase, if perhaps a trifle redundant (are there
    other kinds of circumlocution which <em>don't</em> involve language?).\r\n\r\nI,
    too, am curious about \"ductal logic\"; to me, it sounds as if it ought to involve
    things bilious or lachrymose. Perhaps <strong>ductile</strong> (easily led; tractable;
    complying; yielding to motives, persuasion, or instruction) is a more appropriate
    adjective. And, is the arithmetic partially frontal, or is it full frontal?"
  created: '2005-07-15 17:07:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Perhaps I need to construct Wikipedia definitions for some of these pet
    terms.</em>\r\n\r\nor better yet, [[typowiki]] entries. i'll even start em off
    for you."
  created: '2005-07-15 17:32:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Raph, I loved your Hubble analogy!\r\n\r\n> Hrant- what\u2019s your technique?\r\n\r\nI've
    never done a literal revival. If/when I do, I'll be sure to beg Raph for his algorithm.
    And I will do the same if/when I need to better understand an old face that's
    only visible through -inadequate- printing. That's the sort of thing this is useful
    for, nothing more; but rejecting it outright is a result of fear.\r\n\r\n> If
    one is familiar with metal type, one has already\r\n> been to the stars, and knows
    what they look like. \r\n\r\nThat's assuming all stars are the same, which is
    obviously wrong.\r\nI'll send you an Analogy Training Institute application.\r\n\r\n>
    regularly and infuriatingly labelled fascist by Hrant\r\n\r\nNo, a fascism-apologist;
    very different.\r\nAnd for you I'll send a Focus Your Whining book-on-tape.\r\n\r\n>
    screen resolution will have improved by then\r\n\r\nI'm personally no longer holding
    my breath for that.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 17:35:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Peter,\r\n\r\nThank you for the clarifications. I learn something new every
    day: that's what I love about these forums (well, that and the hermeneutic hijinx,
    torrid textual exegesis and rhetorial rumbles)."
  created: '2005-07-15 17:55:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">No, a fascism-apologist; very different\r\n\r\nOn typophile I have been
    foolish enough to talk politics, defending human rights, democracy and the rule
    of law, and occasionally the right of the state of Israel to exist. You have defended
    undemocratic monarchy, the superiority of Communism to democracy, the change of
    government by violence as superior to change by election, and ethnic purity, at
    least for minorities. \r\n\r\nReaders of Typophile can decide for themselves how
    to label our views. "
  created: '2005-07-15 18:53:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Warp speed to Distortionland!\r\n\r\n> Readers of Typophile can decide for
    themselves how to label our views.\r\n\r\nWith the smart ones unconcerned with
    such labeling, so integral to your own \"bizarro\" world.\r\n\r\nSo do you have
    a casette player or not?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 19:11:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "William - Has Hrant really? Where? Links would be appreciated.\r\n\r\nEnneson
    - This 'Douglas Hofstadter essay' where is it? Can you describe it's content as
    lucidly as you did 'ductal logic' ? That was really helpful! What about ' Donald
    Knuth\u2019s concept of a Metafont'? Where is that & what is it? Why 'Meta'? Is
    it some kind of Platonic idea of 'font'?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 19:17:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">unconcerned with such labeling\r\n\r\nHrant, you inspired the phrases \"ecology
    of distortion\" (Peter Enneson), and \"bizarro world\" (Jonathan Hoefler) not
    me. That table won't turn. If you have a problem with these complaints--a couple
    of whiners according to you, no doubt--address them, not me.    \r\n\r\n>William
    - Has Hrant really? Where? Links would be appreciated.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/9254.html?1053346486\">Here</a>
    is a sample of Hrant's defense of monarchy and attack on democracy, and preference
    for Communism over Western democracy. There are many, many others. "
  created: '2005-07-15 19:47:05'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>Has Hrant really? Where? Links would be appreciated.</cite>\r\n\r\nThough
    I am enjoying this battle of who is the true alpha male, I find this to be an
    unnecessary addition to the original topic.\r\n\r\nThat is my point of view, as
    reader of Typophile."
  created: '2005-07-15 19:47:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I am sorry, Zara. I''m afraid I find it difficult not to protest when I am
    called a ''fascist'' or ''fascist-apologist'', when that is completely false and
    extremely repugnant to me. I''m not ''alpha'' and not trying to be. The extent
    of my ''macho'' is that I detest bullying, and will object to it. I won''t post
    for a while though.  '
  created: '2005-07-15 19:59:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">That\u2019s assuming all stars are the same, which is obviously wrong.\r\n\r\nIf
    one is familiar with a variety of stars up close, and observes a new one from
    afar, one can make reasonable assumptions about the new one, if it bears a similarlity
    to what one knows. And Christian Gothic ain't no black hole, \r\n\r\nWhat's all
    this crap about the Analogy Institute?\r\nWhy can't you carry on a discussion
    without these \"witty\" put downs?"
  created: '2005-07-15 20:08:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Come on, William, make an effort and find the one where I take on Steve Paxton's
    challenge of detailing how to transition from this cesspool (Capitalism using
    Democracy as his hitman, to convert culture into cash) to a <strong>decent, humane</strong>
    system.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m afraid I find it difficult not to protest\r\n\r\nBecause
    you care more about religion than fonts. I myself find it difficult not to reply
    to every single typographic issues that comes up on Theologophile.\r\n\r\n> one
    can make reasonable assumptions about the new one\r\n\r\nUnless of course the
    star was forged by Nick \"JJ Rousseau\" Shinn, in which case it is Verily Originale.\r\n\r\n>
    Christian Gothic ain\u2019t no black hole\r\n\r\nWell, well. I would definitely
    show that one off in your application - maybe you can skip the written entrance
    exam. That's if they never find out about your metal-font/human-face analogy though.\r\n\r\n>
    Why can\u2019t you carry on a discussion without these \u201Cwitty\u201D put downs?\r\n\r\nWhy
    did the scorpion sting the frog who was helping him cross the river?\r\n\r\nI
    do not fit in any of your boxes.\r\nAnd I'm a lousy alpha male, because I cannot
    be followed.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nWill you guys focus on the content?! Daaaaamn.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 21:07:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eban, I'd encourage you to read the Hofstadter essay yourself. The full title
    is \"Meta-Font, Metamathematics, and Metaphysics: Comments on Donald Knuth's \u201CThe
    Concept of a Meta-Font,\" and it appeared in \"Visible Language\", Volume XVI,
    Number 4 Autumn 1982. The Knuth essay is in a slightly earlier edition. \r\n\r\nIn
    lieu of summarizing it's content, may I refer you to Figure 1 of my contribution
    to Typo#13, available here: http://www.magtypo.cz/english.html\r\n(scroll to Issue
    13)\r\nor, for a direct download, hit:\r\nhttp://www.magtypo.cz/download/TYPO_2005_13.pdf\r\n\r\npage
    21."
  created: '2005-07-15 21:13:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Will you guys focus on the content?!\r\n\r\nOne law for the lion and  ox
    is oppression, right?"
  created: '2005-07-15 22:49:21'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Speaking of meta-discussion, I forgot to thank Nick for his kind words about
    60 posts ago, apologizing for inadvertently flaming me. Apology accepted, and
    thanks. Words do make a difference.\r\n\r\nI just created a wiki entry for [[Metafont]].
    Peter, feel more than free to add a squib referencing your Typo article.\r\n\r\nNick:
    we'll have to agree to disagree on whether the \"n\" image is sufficiently sharp.
    I do agree that the technique is extremely effective along the body of strokes
    (I'm especially impressed by its ability to clearly visualize the wiggles on the
    hairline), and trickier to interpret at corners. As for the outside corners, many
    of those show wear patterns, and you may be conflating that with actual loss of
    sharpness. I see the distinction fairly clearly (although I must admit that autotracing
    the outlines would probably not be able to see the distinction). One interesting
    direction to pursue would be a finer classification into intact and damaged impressions,
    so that it would be possible to visualize a composite of only the former. (indeed,
    my present classification logic does tend to reject badly damaged letters, and
    has caught a few other surprises, such as one instance of an upside down 'u' standing
    for an 'n').\r\n\r\nI have not carefully analyzed the \"ductal logic\" of Christian
    Gothic, largely because I'm not very knowledgeable about blackletters (as I've
    said, one of the reasons I'm studying this is to learn more). My gut feeling is
    that, for the lowercase, the ductal logic will follow traditional blackletters
    fairly closely (the 1484 Collard Mansion I cited upthread is the closest match
    I was able to find; of more \"famous\" sources, Caxton's blackletter comes pretty
    darn close). The uppercase is more of a mystery, but I wouldn't be surprised at
    all if the Plantin/Tavernier Civilite cited by Hrant turned out to be a good match.
    I'm certainly going to haul out my books when I get them unpacked and comb through
    the Civilites.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 23:26:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">As for the outside corners, many of those show wear patterns, and you may
    be conflating that with actual loss of sharpness.\r\n\r\nYou're right, but I think
    that both things happen.\r\nThe straighter the contour, the sharper it is, a mathematical
    relationship.\r\n\r\nCorners are more prone to wear, and that wear is more likely
    to be sharp and irregular, which will create a blur. \r\n\r\nHowever, fuzzier
    corners is also a feature of the averaging process.\r\nTry this: set a character
    with very sharp serifs (eg Beaufort) at very large size in Photoshop. Apply Gaussian
    Blur. It's blurrier at the points. (Apply unsharp mask to heighten the effect.)\r\nThis
    seems to be related in some way. All very mind boggling.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-16 02:04:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Where this line of thought is leading: why not test the averaging process
    on offset lithography? That may help distinguish which visual effects are due
    to the printing technique, and which to the analytical process.'
  created: '2005-07-16 09:57:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Enneson- Thanks for the link! I am devouring the whole thing now. That is
    a really fun/ny icon you have there. What is it? And how/why did you decide to
    you it? The charcter looks deeply ambivalent to me. How does he look to you?
  created: '2005-07-18 22:40:30'
date: '2005-02-15 07:47:15'
node_type: forum
title: Christian Gothic

---
