---
author:
  name: kmrado
body: "Dear Readers,\r\n\r\nI'm currently in the process of gathering research for
  a final project.\r\n\r\nMy thesis is on the effects of the new digital media, on
  print. e.g.; iPad, Kindle, pdfs, wiki, and any other digital based media that has
  recently taken over the print market. Print is not dying, but it's recessing back
  into it's Medieval ways. It's strictly for the prestige. The wealthy. Those who
  can afford to buy books. The throw away, paper back is going out of style and there
  is a stronger emphasis on printing books that are of value. Holding to it's craft...etc\r\n\r\nSo,
  internet users...whats your take on it? Do you own an iPad? Do you even buy books
  anymore? When was the last time you bought a printed material?\r\nIf your a working
  professional, designer, printmaker, digital media; how has the digital divide effected
  you? Positive or Negative? Or do you not feel infringed at all?\r\n\r\nYour thoughts
  are appreciated. \r\n-rado"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can draw a parallel to letterpress: what was once looked down upon as
    the over-the-hill poor cousin of offset printing has become a high-end niche product.
    The problem is that causes most people to see it as a fetish (think of the gaudy
    over-impression in most contemporary letterpress) so I guess most books will become
    over-designed, over-decorated too. Another parallel is calligraphy: it's basically
    art now.\r\n\r\nFor myself, I'm skeptical of light-emissive screens for reading,
    but I love my Kindle, not least because it's so passive - it's not screaming at
    your for attention, and gasping for a recharge. I've long loved reading physical
    books, but I abhor nostalgia, so I have no problem seeing printed books disappear,
    not least because it would save trees.\r\n\r\nOne thing that pisses me off though
    is that it's become nearly impossible to get very high quality typeface specimens
    made. There used to be Velox (AKA \"RC paper\") but not any more, and digital
    printing is still not good enough for super-crisp b&w, and in this zeitgeist can
    never become good enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-01 06:31:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>The throw away, paper back is going out of style and there is a stronger
    emphasis on printing books that are of value.</em>\r\n\r\nCan you back up that
    claim?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kmrado
    body: "@ frode frank\r\n\r\nI'm citing work more than throwing my opinion, but
      I've pulled it from this:\r\nhttp://craigmod.com/journal/ipad_and_books/"
    created: '2012-05-01 18:43:19'
  created: '2012-05-01 10:22:50'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<blockquote>It's strictly for the prestige. The wealthy. Those who can afford
    to buy books.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot true. In extensive parts of the world the
    price of a Kindle or iPad is equivalent to the purchase price of hundreds, or
    even thousands of articles of printed matter. Eg, the price per copy of an Indian
    newspaper is around 10 dollarcents (5 Rupees \u2014 The Indian Times). The ASP
    for a iPad in India is around 760 USD (40,000 Rupees), although there are locally
    produced tablets that cost a fraction of that, eg the Akaash, which costs around
    39 USD.\r\n\r\nFor the price of an iPad an Indian could buy 7600 newspapers\u2026
    which is around 20 years worth of news and information. That cheaper tablet is
    still more than a years worth of newspaper.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kmrado
    body: "For the price of an iPad an Indian could buy 7600 newspapers\u2026 which
      is around 20 years worth of news and information. That cheaper tablet is still
      more than a years worth of newspaper.\r\n\r\nInstead of newspapers, I'm trying
      to focus on books. Newspapers are an affordable throw away item. I might haven't
      been clear."
    created: '2012-05-01 19:00:03'
  created: '2012-05-01 15:24:04'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "I have heard of and been involved in a lot of casual discussions around this
    concept but always in terms of what the future holds, rather than as a perspective
    on current trends in publishing. On a smaller scale than your overview implies
    this kind of publishing is already in evidence; custom publishing, vanity editions,
    self-published titles, but these have been around for some time and are nothing
    new. Perhaps a revision or expansion (with more references and examples) of what
    you are trying to achieve would be helpful?\r\n\r\nOn a personal level, I enjoy
    reading on an iPad and even the iPhone. That said, in the past two weeks have
    I have purchased three hard copy books. I think I will always split my reading
    between the two mediums (partly due to the availability of what I want to read),
    but I have no idea how representative of a wider trend this might be. I would
    say that for the majority of texts that I read, content is more important than
    format or context, but good typography is also incredibly important as part of
    the reading experience on the page or the screen, for what it is worth..."
  created: '2012-05-01 15:52:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Did somebody say India?\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aakash_%28tablet%29\r\nCheck
    out the price.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "According to the Wikipedia article that Hrant linked, the real price of
      the Aakash, as the UbiSlate 7+, is $60 rather than $35 for someone who wants
      to buy one.\r\n\r\n$35 is what the government will pay to give one to a student
      for free.\r\n\r\nI certainly agree that paper books are ahead at present. Think
      of buying a second-hand copy of a paperback book, possibly at a thrift shop
      or a library book sale: no contest.\r\n\r\nBut with concern over the size of
      our forests, the price of brand new paper books is going up, and eventually
      paper availability will be an issue. On top of that, pushing people to E-books
      apparently will mean publishers can charge the same price for a book without
      having to pay for the paper and binding any more.\r\n\r\nSo I do see this future
      as inevitable. There is the \"Retina display\" that is coming into vogue, so
      it may be that by the time E-books take over, displays will have a higher resolution,
      \ thus better presenting type.\r\n\r\nBut the real issue is that it's unlikely
      the DRM will allow a way to transfer possession of used books, and so type looking
      fuzzy will be a small matter compared to:\r\n\r\n- the death of the public library,\r\n-
      the death of the second-hand bookstore,\r\n- books becoming much more expensive,
      as, in effect, there will only be new hardcovers, no pocket books, no second-hand
      books\r\n\r\nThis is what will have a destructive social impact."
    created: '2012-05-01 19:12:45'
  created: '2012-05-01 17:32:11'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "It's clear that digital publishing \u2014 iPad, Kindle, etc \u2014 is the
    trend of the future and that sales of printed books, magazines and newspapers
    will decline seriously. \r\n\r\nMy guess is that two types of printed books will
    hang on the longest -- inexpensive paperbacks (for readers in lower economic groups
    who can't afford an iPad/Kindle and who look for budget-priced books) and coffee
    table or collectable books (large-format photos, fancy bindings, etc).\r\n\r\nAs
    for myself, I've always loved books and have a pretty good sized library, but
    since getting my iPad I've bought all my books digitally. It's just so darn convenient."
  children:
  - author:
      name: kmrado
    body: "@JamesM\r\nHm...that's interesting that you feel that way about what books
      will hang on the longest. \r\n\r\nAfter you have bought an a book via iPad,
      have you ever gone out and bought a physical copy to add to your library?"
    created: '2012-05-01 19:04:32'
  created: '2012-05-01 17:33:50'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Type design is the same as it ever was. Only, the tools have gotten better.\r\n\r\nWe
    are making fonts today that we hope to look good when reduced in size or web-font-ized.
    We are going about solving these problems as type designers had to for badly inked
    hand press work hundreds of years ago.  \r\n\r\nMovable type is one of the oldest
    technologies around, and for as long as it has been moving through generations
    and the creation and adaption of new tools, it is surprising how little it has
    truly changed.\r\n\r\nI think the idea that technology has changed anything is
    rather weak, insofar as the actual design of type itself, new limitations spring
    up, and get overcome.  Surely technology, mainly the modern computer, has allowed
    pretty much anyone on earth to dive into developing type, and for the professionals,
    the time it takes them to create something has shrunken dramatically, but I don't
    see how this changes the shapes and curves and lines one sees in their head when
    they are trying to create type."
  created: '2012-05-01 17:38:20'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "The new iPad just became available in India a couple of days ago. The price
    starts at 30,500 rupees, which I believe is around $580.\r\n\r\nhttp://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2012-04-27/gadgets-special/31420969_1_gb-wi-fi-ipad-64gb-model\r\n\r\nAccording
    to one article I read (not the URL above), tablets have not sold well in India
    so far. Neither have PCs (there's only 1 PC per 25 people). "
  created: '2012-05-01 17:42:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I haven't looked in a while, but the last time I did, a mass-market paperback
    was significantly cheaper than a Kindle, I-Pad or whatever book. \r\n\r\nRemember
    too that many of the costs of making the *files* for ebooks are usually born by
    the print edition, including the publisher's overheads.\r\n\r\nOr were you going
    to throw acquiring, editing, proofreading, correcting, etc. out with the paper?"
  created: '2012-05-01 18:54:57'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "The move to electronic books is simply another step in the overall movement
    of burden-shifting.\r\n\r\nVirtual products relieve their makers of the costs
    of manufacturing and/or distributing a physical product. Even non-physical goods\u2014like
    television programming\u2014are migrating from free-to-all to free-if-you-pay-for-internet-access.
    Telephone companies are currently trying trying to absolve themselves of the responsibility
    for maintaining landlines. And so on\u2026\r\n\r\nWhile virtual reality may appear
    to be simply a quest to find more and more inconsequential ways to fiddle while
    Rome burns, its real purpose is to shake you down in new and improved ways.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kmrado
    body: "@oldnick\r\n\"Virtual products relieve their makers of the costs of manufacturing
      and/or distributing a physical product.\" Do you feel that as a consumer, it
      may dehumanize the process? Rids of the idea of a physical printed object in
      hand? Do you agree with the idea of burden-shifting?"
    created: '2012-05-01 19:52:55'
  created: '2012-05-01 18:58:26'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> After you have bought an a book via iPad, have you ever gone\r\n> out and
    bought a physical copy to add to your library?\r\n\r\nI haven't, and I doubt if
    that happens very often. \r\n\r\nBut on the iPad you can download the first chapter
    of any available book for free, and I could see someone reading the free sample
    chapter and then deciding to buy the physical book.\r\n\r\n> This is what will
    have a destructive social impact.\r\n\r\nYou may be right, and I share your concern
    about libraries. But on the other hand I've seen statistics that the majority
    of adults never go to the library, they don't patronize bookstores, and they rarely
    even read a book. If electronic devices like iPads and Kindles make it quick and
    easy for people to buy and read books, perhaps it might has a positive effect."
  created: '2012-05-01 19:43:33'
- author:
    name: kmrado
  body: I guess I'm looking for a more personal level response? I just want to know
    your preference rather than if my thesis is valid or not. Print vs. Digital for
    yourself, and why or why not?
  created: '2012-05-01 19:43:45'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>\"Virtual products relieve their makers of the costs of manufacturing...\"
    </cite>\r\n\r\nReally? You think they grow on trees? Guess that's another reason
    not to cut down trees...\r\n\r\nToday, most books have both a print and digital
    edition. On the balance sheet, guess which edition bears the costs of publishing? "
  created: '2012-05-01 20:59:35'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "The cost of printing and shipping a book is only a small percentage of its
    price.\r\n\r\nThe New York Times says that for a book that retails for $26, the
    publisher pays only $3.25 (12% of the book's price)\_to print, store and ship
    the book, including unsold copies that are returned. \r\n\r\nThe retail book store
    would keep $13 (50% of the retail price), the author gets around $3.90 (can vary),
    and the rest goes to overhead, proofing, design, typesetting, marketing, and the
    publisher's profit.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/01/business/media/01ebooks.html\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-01 21:44:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good numbers - thanks. But there's a shift:\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-17685120\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-01 21:51:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Or were you going to throw acquiring, editing, proofreading, correcting,
    etc. out with the paper?</em>\r\n\r\nAnyone can post their work online for the
    nominal fee of getting online.\r\nAt the moment, that cuts out the quality control.\r\nBut
    automated, creator-driven ways will emerge to put some order into the mass of
    content.\r\nGoing viral will become less random.\r\nOr writers will just have
    to rely on really good \uFB01rst lines.\r\nIt\u2019s the best of times\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kmrado
    body: "@Nick Shinn\r\n\r\nGoing viral, do you think that'll be the future for
      most writers? If so, how do you think that'll effect printed literature?"
    created: '2012-05-03 15:26:03'
  created: '2012-05-01 22:16:06'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "If you measure a progress by the standard of being independent - a book doesn't
    require batteries, it's a lot more portable, and far more maintenance free. Oh
    ya, don't drop your digital device on to concrete / payment etc..\r\n\r\nSo which
    provides independence digital or non-digital? Independence is the measuring stick
    of the Individual. \r\n\r\nToday I read the daily paper and picked up a fashion
    mag, and sourced out large format photographic printing. How much of what I consumed
    today is of recycled material? Beats me ...I leave that to the forces of the environmentalists
    ... just as I do for the inevitable disposal associated with all the toxic digital
    waste.\r\n\r\nOops! I just dropped my iPhone.\r\n\r\nAt the end of the day I wonder
    what the ecological footprint will be for all digital devices?   \r\n\r\nI'm not
    a prosumer (professional consumer), I don't care about the latest digital version
    of whatever but, as a freelance designer I do consume both digital and non-digital
    products. But I do it because of 'needs' and not 'wants'.\r\n\r\nGovernments that
    become involved in such consumer products such 'tablets for the people' are more
    concerned with the countries economy rather than it's ecology. The return business
    is what really matters. Hook them early and do it on the cheap. \r\n\r\nFree tablet
    for every new born!!\r\n\r\nMitt Romney's campaign manager ... take notes.  \r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2012-05-01 22:44:31'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Do you feel that as a consumer, it may dehumanize the process? Rids of
    the idea of a physical printed object in hand? Do you agree with the idea of burden-shifting?</em>\r\n\r\nProbably
    no more or less dehumanizing than fake friends and sultry electronic handmaidens.
    Remember, the pre-internet definition of <strong>virtual</strong> was \u201Calmost
    or nearly as described, but not completely or according to strict definition.\u201D
    Fake is the new real; unlimited is the new whole big bunch; Limited Edition is
    the new \u201Climited to as many as people will buy.\u201D\r\n\r\nRegardless of
    my preferences, burden-sharing is here to stay. Plus, it pays my bills, so I can\u2019t
    complain."
  created: '2012-05-02 00:39:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I buy more books than ever but none of them are novels.  Most of them are
    reference books and illustrated. I do not own a Kindle, etc.  I am an old fart
    so my patterns differ from the current generation.
  created: '2012-05-02 00:58:39'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I think the day when color fonts are pervasive, by which I mean everything
    from microsoft wordpad to the Sony Vegas video editor can use raster or gradient
    based color fonts will be a huge landmark in type design. There has been some
    discussion of this re the icons available for the iphone and windows 7 phones.\r\n\r\nOf
    course after this will be pervasive 3 dimensional fonts, and after that 4 dimensional,
    the 4th dimension as time, and thus motion."
  children:
  - author:
      name: flooce
      picture: 118607
    body: "<em>Of course after this will be pervasive 3 dimensional fonts, and after
      that 4 dimensional, the 4th dimension as time, and thus motion.</em>\r\n\r\nI
      am waiting to see a tasteful useage of that. :)"
    children:
    - author:
        name: kmrado
      body: "@flooce\r\n\r\nDoes this mean your against the digitizing of type? What
        examples would you use that demonstrate the un-tasteful usage?"
      created: '2012-05-03 15:10:02'
    created: '2012-05-02 15:52:55'
  - author:
      name: kmrado
    body: "@Ryan Maelhorn\r\n\r\nYou seem to be gun-hoe for augmented reality. After
      viewing your site, you design type as well. Do you design your type geared toward
      screen legibility?"
    created: '2012-05-03 15:14:39'
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "<cite>Of course after this will be pervasive 3 dimensional fonts, and after
      that 4 dimensional, the 4th dimension as time, and thus motion.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
      remember a <em>Star Trek: The Next Generation</em> episode in which an alien
      language whose written form consisted of whirling colored balls appeared on
      a computer screen... so apparently at least one alien civilization succumbed
      to this temptation."
    created: '2012-05-03 21:56:11'
  created: '2012-05-02 03:54:55'
- author:
    name: sko
    picture: 124613
  body: "My sister uses a Kindle a lot, but she uses it to read classic literature
    almost exclusively, as they are often sold for much cheaper than a retail bookstore
    or ordering a physical book. Her reading is sort of split 50/50 with physical
    books though (often got at similar prices from a 2nd hand bookstore).\r\n\r\nFor
    myself, I generally read illustrated or reference/textbooks which are unsuitable
    for electronic readers a lot of the time."
  created: '2012-05-02 17:05:28'
- author:
    name: kmrado
  body: "@sko & @dezcom\r\n\r\nYou two both say you read illustrated books more classic
    literature. So graphic novels? Are they're any web based graphic novels you follow?
    (Penny Arcade, Nothing Nice To Say, etc...) "
  created: '2012-05-03 15:07:49'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "kmrado, I replied to your email.\r\n\r\nn. "
  created: '2012-05-03 17:06:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The only graphic novels I have read were on paper (and written by my son).
    I am not familiar with any of the web based graphic novels you cited.  Keep in
    mind that I am 68 years old.
  created: '2012-05-03 17:12:14'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "dez, coolness! Does he have anything up on Issuu dot com? \r\n\r\nHave you
    seen the tv series Afro Samurai?\r\n\r\nI'll be doing Lords of Graphite in sort
    of a graphic novel format but in moving imagery kind of like Afro Samurai :)\r\n\r\n\r\nn. "
  created: '2012-05-03 21:30:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: All the alien worlds I have visited no-longer require written language.  They
    have perfected thought transformation to such a high degree that children, just
    after birth, are infused with all the knowledge of the cosmos in a few seconds
    time. The other good part is that cell phones have all vanished or been put in
    mental museums..
  created: '2012-05-03 22:00:50'
- author:
    name: sko
    picture: 124613
  body: "@kmrado\r\n\r\nI mean more of textbooks or art books, which need pictorial
    examples or largish pictures as the purpose.\r\n\r\nI have read a few graphic
    novels, but it's not really something I do regularly; I don't read a lot of fiction
    in general."
  created: '2012-05-03 22:11:33'
date: '2012-05-01 06:12:25'
node_type: forum
title: The Digital Divide

---
