---
author:
  name: catimo
body: "Hello there,\r\ndoes anybody know if the Gill Sans family now includes an Arabic
  version ? \r\nKnow for sure it has been/is being worked on, but can't seem to find
  it in any of the fontshops ...\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, Gill himself once made an Arabic (during a sojourn in Egypt) but: it
    wasn't meant to match Gill Sans; and it was somewhat freaky so was never published.
    A while back* there was an article about it (embarrassingly called \"Gill Sands\")
    in Print magazine (in which the dunces actually managed to put one of the illustrations
    upside-down).\r\n\r\n* I just checked - it was exactly 14 years ago.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-02 14:40:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I remember that Eric Gill made a rather freaky Hebrew that was published...
    but this post reminded me of a Peanuts cartoon with the punchline \"How can a
    hula hoop be hi-fi?\" - in this case, the question is, how can an Arabic be Gill
    Sans?\r\n\r\nOf course, for most practical purposes, putting in a generic Arabic
    typeface as part of a Times Roman or Arial typeface works to allow the characters
    to be displayed - and, thus, there is no real need to truly capture the spirit
    of Gill Sans in the Arabic portion of the font. Although that might still be a
    thing for a type designer to attempt - but such a typeface would presumably be
    sold separately and cost extra, as it probably should."
  created: '2012-05-02 18:53:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "His Hebrew was a few notches freakier than the Arabic. It's on the order
    of the cra... stuff in Schonfield's book.\r\n\r\nI think it's possible to make
    any sensitive non-Latin of any font - it's just that most people wouldn't have
    the eye to see what's really going on. That's just the nature of the beast. In
    fact not unlike how most people think Georgia is a big Times.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-02 18:58:36'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Oh? And here Ah sat ova mah cuppa and thot Georgia wuz a kyoot Modern.
  created: '2012-05-02 20:35:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: And because it had oldstyle figures (but they got the 1 wrong for the sake
    of protecting the typographically illiterate from confusion), I thought it was
    some kind of a hideously deformed Garamond... or an awkward grafting of oldstyle
    features on a Century Expanded-like base. But those aesthetic sins could be excused
    as it was a passable font designed to be readable on low-resolution displays.
  created: '2012-05-02 21:07:01'
- author:
    name: ahmedelmalah
    picture: 127708
  body: "Hello, I created Gill Sans Arabic Version for my Company\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screen
    Shot 2014-09-23 at 11_3891.55.31 AM.jpg]"
  created: '2014-09-23 09:52:56'
- author:
    name: ahmedelmalah
    picture: 127708
  body: Here it is[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screen Shot 2014-09-23 at 11_5216.57.21
    AM.jpg]
  created: '2014-09-23 09:54:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Would you like a critique?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-23 14:23:15'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: If he doesn't, I would love to hear one. Not fair, but you peaked my curiosity.
    Particularly considering my first thought after reading the initial post was "how
    the hell can you turn Gill Sans into an Arabic script and have its idiosyncrasies
    translated appropriately?".
  created: '2014-10-23 04:31:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Um, that would be <em>piqued</em> "my curiosity".
  created: '2014-10-23 20:57:01'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Thanks for telling me, because I never even knew that word existed. I've always
    used 'peaked' in that context.
  created: '2014-10-23 21:15:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me the \"secret\" of translating a typeface's idiosyncrasies (better:
    characteristics) across scripts is to avoid the facile migration of formal shapes
    (which very rarely works, and often results in cultural damage) and focus instead
    on figuring out what those shapes evoke in the source culture and migrate those
    to shapes that evoke similar things in the target culture.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-23 23:31:35'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "It seems a big challenge to do as you say. Translating these characteristics
    to Cyrillic and Greek seems doable. Hebrew seems more difficult already. I wouldn't
    know where to begin with Arabic.\r\n\r\nWhat if you discover that certain shapes
    just don't translate well to the other culture? Is there something you can do
    or would you have to give up at this point, or just make a generic translation?"
  created: '2014-10-23 23:38:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Deadlines and confused clients can certainly cause one to design something
    not to be proud of... Barring those things, as a rule it's possible to translate
    any \"feeling\" since humans anywhere all feel similar things.\r\n\r\nBTW there's
    actually a hidden risk when designing something close to Latin, like Cyrillic
    or Greek: you feel more justified doing a straight formal migration. But something
    like Trajan does not evoke in its forms the same things to a Russian or a Greek;
    so for example its \"A\" should not be identical between those scripts. The idea
    of \"cognate shapes\" (as put forth by John Hudson for examples) is a red herring.
    In contrast when you're doing a totally different script (like Arabic) the disjoin
    is so obvious that it forces you to think more deeply.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 01:32:43'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>But something like Trajan does not evoke in its forms the same
    things to a Russian or a Greek.</blockquote>It does, at least to a Russian.<blockquote><\u2026>
    its  \u201CA\u201D should not be identical between those scripts.</blockquote>It
    should, at least between the Latin and the Cyrillic glyph sets."
  created: '2014-10-24 04:01:24'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>Barring those things, as a rule it's possible to translate any
    \"feeling\" since humans anywhere all feel similar things.</blockquote>\r\nSimilar,
    but not the same. I find it hard to imagine that an Arabic script Gill Sans brings
    up the same feelings and associations as the Latin Gill Sans does. The scripts
    inherently bring up different feelings. You might as well say sans and serif bring
    up the same feelings because they both have stems. Even Latin will bring up different
    feelings depending on which language you use. I honestly think it's impossible
    to perfectly translate the feeling of a Latin script to an Arabic script or vice
    versa.\r\n\r\nBut this is interesting though, because although the same feelings
    just don't translate, it does have to conjure up part of those feelings. Possibly
    we can't even speak of feelings here. Is it a more rational approach perhaps to
    bring the two in correlation with each other? I suppose it needs just a few key
    elements which help you connect the two scripts, rather than wanting to have them
    speak to you in the same way on an individual basis.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>so for
    example its \"A\" should not be identical between those scripts.</blockquote>\r\nAnd
    yet it is. What should be different?"
  created: '2014-10-24 04:39:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maxim: that was pretty fast.  :-)\r\nTo me, since Latin users and Cyrillic
    users are necessarily different in terms of their \"visual language background\",
    any formal identicalness is a lost design opportunity.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I find
    it hard to imagine that an Arabic script Gill Sans brings up the same feelings
    and associations as the Latin Gill Sans does.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell, if you
    do apply formal congruence between the two scripts, I certainly agree they bring
    up different feelings \u2013 and that's actually my point. What I'm advocating
    is making new shapes in the Arabic that evoke to Arabic readers what Gill Sans
    tends to evoke to Latin readers.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>And yet it is.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAlmost
    always, yes. But it doesn't have to be: look at the \"Y\" shapes in Adobe's Sava.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What
    should be different?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI don't have nativity in Cyrillic so
    it's hard for me to know offhand, but in the case of the \"A\" for example I would
    say the two main factors are width, and height of the bar. In the latter especially
    it should be possible to establish whether a higher bar or a lower bar evokes
    to Cyrillic users what Trajan evokes to Latin users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 05:05:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since Times Roman came in special versions for German and French, that capital
    \"A\" maybe should look different in Russian or Greek should not be too hard to
    accept.\r\n\r\nWhile only native readers of those languages could really decide
    what is appropriate, a guess, a glimmering, might be possible from looking at
    what is popular in those languages. In the case of Russian, it seems that typefaces
    in the Modern classification (akin to Bodoni and Scotch Roman) were popular to
    nearly the exclusion of Transitional or Oldstyle faces, whereas in the Latin alphabet
    world, Transitional (like Baskerville or Times Roman) and Oldstyle (Garamond,
    Bembo, Caslon) were much more popular.\r\n\r\nIn the case of Hebrew, I've heard
    that the Frank - Ruhl face was so popular as to be Israel's equivalent to Times
    Roman - to me, that face looks, visually, like a Scotch Roman, while the \"Siddur\"
    type of face is more like Times Roman or some other comfortable Transitional or
    Oldstyle.\r\n\r\nFor Greek, sans-serif faces seem to have a greater level of popularity
    for text use; this is not surprising to me, since it seems to me that they better
    avoid the tension between capitals that are like Roman capitals and lower-case
    that is like script or italics (even if it isn't sloped Porson-style)."
  created: '2014-10-24 06:03:36'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>What I'm advocating is making new shapes in the Arabic that evoke
    to Arabic readers what Gill Sans tends to evoke to Latin readers.</blockquote>\r\nIt
    almost sounds easy. I suppose one would have to exaggerate certain strokes, but
    then I would worry it would change the meaning of the script or just look bad.
    Even when done by a native speaker, I imagine there would be severe limitations.
    But then this is largely speculation from my part. I'm curious how restricted
    we are, and if it could lead to innovation if we were to go beyond those restrictions.
    For example, the Arabic script is so alien to me that if I were to design a typeface
    for it, it would probably feature strange deviations one might argue make the
    typeface terrible, while others might say I've done something refreshing they
    haven't thought of yet. I would be curious about these kind of loose interpretations.
    It requires a lot of insight to get a script right, but that very insight is also
    what restricts you. Anyway, this is a bit of a different matter.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Almost
    always, yes. But it doesn't have to be: look at the \"Y\" shapes in Adobe's Sava.</blockquote>\r\nDo
    you mean the flying bird-like character?"
  created: '2014-10-24 07:01:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Martin Silvertant > ...  if I were to design a typeface for it, it would
    probably feature strange deviations one might argue make the typeface terrible,
    while others might say I've done something refreshing they haven't thought of
    yet. \r\n\r\n@ It is the strange deviations that is refreshing to me. Go Go Go!
    \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/120811\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 14:14:02'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "For some reason I never even thought about how many letters Arabic might
    have. Can you speak of letters here? It's very nice to get some insight into the
    system.\r\n\r\nCan you illustrate what kind of strange deviations you're employing
    there? As I'm not familiar with the script, I have no insight into what's strange,
    and to which extent it could be perceived as either beautiful/creative/refreshing
    or just plain odd or sacrificing functionality or possibly undermining historical\u2026
    I don't know what word to finish that sentence with\u2014historical conventions
    I suppose."
  created: '2014-10-24 17:44:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Arabic has 28 letters (not counting extended letters use by other languages,
    such as Farsi) most of which have four forms (some only two) depending on the
    position in the word. Some people think that Arabic is in fact even more complex
    than that \u2013 that it relies on complex ligation to be authentic.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>if
    I were to design a typeface for it, it would probably feature strange deviations
    one might argue make the typeface terrible, while others might say I've done something
    refreshing they haven't thought of yet.</blockquote> \r\n\r\nIndeed the non-native
    has an interesting and useful role to play: na\xEFve invention. Like how vernacular
    lettering can end up informing formal typography. That's why when I'm hired as
    a consultant for Armenian type design by non-natives I prefer to let them first
    experiment, based on their instincts. Interesting things come out! On the other
    hand, when it comes time for me to apply my native expertise they have to be open
    to my confirmation or rejection of certain innovative features. Too often non-natives
    don't accept their limitations, sometimes resulting in actual cultural damage
    to vulnerable writing systems.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 18:31:43'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>Too often non-natives don't accept their limitations, sometimes
    resulting in actual cultural damage to vulnerable writing systems.</blockquote>\r\nI
    feel there's an even bigger sentiment at play, where one is skeptical and dismissive
    of figures of authority on a certain subject. I would always emphasize the importance
    of skepticism, but it's frustrating when you've done years of research on a subject
    and you get quickly dismissed just because the other person doesn't have a similar
    insight to verify the truth of what you say.\r\n\r\nFor example, yesterday I was
    having dinner at my dad's place and there was a printed manual from some digital
    switch for my dad's model train tracks by digirail. I noticed that the digirail
    logo uses Helvetica, the copyright notice on the left of it is set in Univers
    and they're using Arial for titles and such. I turned over the page and they're
    using Calibri on the inside. How can you make sense of this at all? I shared my
    frustrations and my dad was the only one who engaged with my story at all, but
    he was very dismissive of its importance. \"Who would even see that?\" I don't
    think that's even the point, is it? There is just no rationale behind it at all.
    That's my main objection. I had to tell him how they would have to pay for several
    licenses to make use of all these fonts\u2014which as he said, no one else would
    see\u2014before he understood the importance at all. He often dismisses my knowledge
    as being important and ascribes it to my autistic obsessions. That might very
    well be, but that doesn't take away the fact that some people are doing crazy
    things without any rationale behind it. That's absolutely my biggest frustration
    in life; the lack of logic behind so many things in my direct environment."
  created: '2014-10-24 18:42:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Much dismissal of native advice stems from the \u2013admittedly essential\u2013
    artistic element of any design activity. The artist in a designer can fall prey
    to hubris.\r\n\r\nBTW tell your dad that most type designers are not autistic
    but would have been just as obsessive!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 18:51:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, one can say that Arabic has 28 letters, just as one can say that Hebrew
    has 22 letters. Yes, they're all consonants. But the writing system isn't a full-fledged
    abugida, like Indic scripts or Ethiopic, since vowels are only an optional annotation.\r\n\r\n<cite>Too
    often non-natives don't accept their limitations, sometimes resulting in actual
    cultural damage to vulnerable writing systems.</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed, that has
    happened. But not all non-Western writing systems qualify as vulnerable. Occupying
    powers, and missionaries giving people their first writing system have the power
    to cause trouble.\r\n\r\nAnd the appeal of the Western/U.S. media can lead to
    people doing it to themselves. But we also shouldn't underestimate the resilience
    of traditions.\r\n\r\nThus, if Koreans want to do a Fraktur-ish version of their
    script for a heavy metal record jacket, it's not likely to stunt the growth of
    their writing system. They can be allowed to have fun."
  created: '2014-10-24 18:56:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Arabic's three vowels are not optional when in their \"long\" form.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>But
    not all non-Western writing systems qualify as vulnerable.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCertainly
    true.\r\nThe ideal balance between innovation and tradition depends mainly on
    the degree of vulnerability. Although paradoxically, there can be no cultural
    survival based only on tradition.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 19:01:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Ah, so Alif, for example, is a long vowel - not a consonant (glottal stop)
    as I thought.
  created: '2014-10-24 19:09:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"a\", \"ee\" and \"oo\" sounds have long forms that are always marked
    and short forms that are optional (although sometimes crucial for understanding).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 19:31:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>It almost sounds easy.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nReally? To me it's
    the biggest challenge in type design. Well, barring the final emancipation of
    the white.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 19:33:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I wasn't implying it's in fact easy. It almost sounded easy the way you phrased
    it. I was implying a contrast with the reality of it.
  created: '2014-10-24 20:09:48'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>Ask http://www.linotype.com/6732/arabic.html why they dismissed
    my fonts?!</blockquote>\r\nWhy ask Linotype when you could tell me? Besides, I
    asked what kind of deviations you're employing; not why Linotype dismissed your
    fonts."
  created: '2014-10-25 04:48:53'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Also, I'm curious if the Arabic script has the equivalent of the colon, semicolon,
    dashes etc. Does it have a need for it?
  created: '2014-10-25 04:50:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Besides, I asked what kind of deviations you're employing; not ...\r\n\r\n@
    Well, Linotype, Fontlab and other type foundaries still do not recognize the fallacy
    of the Arabic mark-positioning notion that need to be constantly deviated as I
    said here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/82934\r\n\r\n> Also, I'm curious if the
    Arabic script has the equivalent of the colon, semicolon, dashes etc. Does it
    have a need for it?\r\n\r\n@ Yes, it does?!"
  created: '2014-10-25 14:26:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Aziz, I think it would be useful to answer questions more directly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-25 15:24:24'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Aziz, can you show the difference in pictures?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>@ Yes,
    it does?!</blockquote>\r\nI'm asking because I've never seen it. Do they use the
    same symbols?"
  created: '2014-10-25 16:27:52'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Hrant > I think it would be useful to answer questions more directly.\r\nMartin
    Silvertant >  can you show the difference in pictures\r\n\r\n@  At you service
    with flowers\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Compare_6396.png]"
  created: '2014-10-25 17:48:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you.\r\nWhat are the superscript numbers with parentheses?\r\nAnd what's
    that upside-down comma in the Latin?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-25 18:02:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Arabic has not more than 19 letters covering all that used by Farsi,
    Jawi and other languages?!</cite>\r\n\r\nMost references, at least in English,
    correctly or incorrectly, treat ba (\u0628), ta (\u062A), and tha (\u062B) as
    three different letters, jim (\u062C), ha (\u062D), and kha (\u062E) as three
    different letters, and so on. Even though the difference between them consists
    only of dots and the like, they're not thought of as diacritics.\r\n\r\nThat's
    why I had said 28 and not 19."
  created: '2014-10-25 19:15:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Historically the dots were actually vowels applied to a base. But that's
    material for a museum, not living people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-25 20:15:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just ran into the perfect example of what NOT to do:\r\nhttps://www.behance.net/gallery/4790859/Khawaja-Typeface-Arabic-Myriad-Pro\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-25 22:27:24'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Quadibloc > Most references, at least in English, correctly or incorrectly,
    treat ba (\u0628), ta (\u062A), and tha (\u062B) as three different letters, jim
    (\u062C), ha (\u062D), and kha (\u062E) as three different letters, and so on...
    That's why I had said 28 and not 19.\r\n\r\n@  That depends on how you look at
    it, optimistically or pessimistically?!\r\nArabic has 28  leters or 19 letterforms.\r\nLatin
    has 26 letters or 52 letterforms.\r\n\r\nHrant > What are the superscript numbers
    with parentheses?\r\n\r\n@ Hindi Footnotes followed by full stop and comma kerned
    into one single glyph.\r\n\r\nHrant > And what's that upside-down comma in the
    Latin?\r\n\r\n@ Arabic Footnote followed by comma kerned into one single glyph.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AzizMarks_5340.gif]"
  created: '2014-10-26 03:42:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>I just ran into the perfect example of what NOT to do:</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    certainly <em>seemed</em> like that, based \"100%\" on the curves of Myriad Pro
    in Latin. But it was designed by one Mahmoud al-Khawaja, not by Joe Smith.\r\n\r\nA
    native user of the writing system might know how much borrowing from external
    sources he can get away with, while one without that advantage needs to hew closely
    to the established tradition."
  created: '2014-10-26 07:41:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sadly, and as John Hudson once made me come to terms with, more often than
    not Latinization is carried out by natives!* This is because many non-Westerners
    have an over-riding desire to become more Western, and they're too cavalier with
    their culture. Couple that to a shallow understanding of how visible language
    really works, and you get Frankerstein fonts like this one.\r\n\r\n* Especially
    those who have spent some time in the West, and have developed an emotional attachment.
    Note that Alkhawaja studied at Savannah Collage of Art and Design, and claims
    to be part of US culture as well as that of his native Jordan.\r\n\r\nI have nativity
    in Arabic myself, and harbor some healthy mistrust of Western influence on other
    cultures. In addition for many years now I've been looking deeply at formal relationships
    of writing systems. To me this is a clear case of inviting cultural colonialism.\r\n\r\nThe
    best letter to look at there is the \u0648 (waaw) which has a spur at its top
    for absolutely no reason other than to look more Western at all costs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-26 14:53:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I don't think that native users of a script can do no wrong. But if someone
    who was not a native user did something like that, without even a precedent to
    go by, for a script as different from Latin as the Arabic script is, that would
    be absolutely idiotic - thus, "the perfect example of what not to do". Done by
    a native script user, it is <em>merely</em> highly questionable.
  created: '2014-10-27 12:14:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would agree... although doesn't being a native make it less excusable?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-27 15:31:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It <em>may</em> make it less excusable, assuming there is something to be
    excused.\r\n\r\nCertainly the most startling letter in it was the waaw, as it
    looks 'way too much like a (single-story) lower case \"g\" - but then, if one
    was not familiar with the Latin script, that wouldn't be obtrusive for <em>that</em>
    reason.\r\n\r\nIn the case of stuff like heavy metal Korean, what's happening
    is that users of a non-Western script wish to quickly appropriate the wealth of
    display typeface options that the Latin alphabet has built up over years. Advertisers
    with products to introduce and ad campaigns to begin... can't wait for the natural
    and organic evolution of a script.\r\n\r\nThe glitz and glamor of our wealthy
    Western lifestyles has beguiled the rest of the world in many respects, and to
    expect the rest of the world to live simple lives in poverty so they can remain
    quaint and picturesque for our sake is unreasonable. People want to survive, to
    thrive, to have fun. So they jump at things that advance their personal interests,
    with little thought of the long-term impact on values like cultural survival."
  created: '2014-10-27 15:59:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's most definitely something to be excused. Like an Arab teaching his
    kids to speak Arabic like an American.\r\n\r\nWho's not familiar with the Latin
    script? And the thing is explicitly a companion to Myriad. Plus in any case it's
    more noise than data.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The glitz and glamor of our wealthy Western
    lifestyles has beguiled the rest of the world in many respects</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSomething
    I've expressed often.\r\n\r\n<blockquote> to expect the rest of the world to live
    simple lives in poverty so they can remain quaint and picturesque for our sake
    is unreasonable.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNobody should expect them to live in poverty.
    That's exactly why we should fight <em>cultural</em> impoverishment. When we become
    too similar, by losing ourselves, that's a loss for everybody. Except corporations...\r\n\r\nI'm
    no fan of traditional calligraphic Arabic type. But let's not throw out the baby
    with the bathwater.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-27 16:12:18'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: You know, I'm not familiar with the Arabic script and so I actually don't
    see anything wrong with the Arabic Myriad Pro. It looks somewhat forced into the
    geometric construct of the Latin script, but then I think that's the charm; to
    have a minimalist, geometric Arabic script. What do you feel should have been
    handled differently here? Could someone perhaps draw up a sample with a letter
    as you think it should have been designed as opposed to what Myriad Pro in the
    sample is now?
  created: '2014-10-27 18:02:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just look at Adobe's own Myriad Arabic (a design that's not slavishly traditional)
    which actually came out a year before Alkhawaja's work. I guess he wasn't satisfied
    by a culturally authentic rendering.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-27 18:07:54'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: Arabic geometric; hmm that's something more difficult that you can imagine.
    I've never seen a geometric arabic typeface that could satisfy geometry and tradition
    at the same time. But if anyone could do this it would be marvelous. Up until
    this moment everything that I've ever seen just disappointed me. The good thing
    about Myriad Arabic form Robert Slimbach is that he didn't try to make a geometric
    arabic typeface. Instead he managed to create a low contrast typeface amalgamated
    from naskh and thulth style. It seems that adobe's Myriad Arabic is mostly influenced
    by the Adobe Arabic typeface from tim holloway. They share very similar constructions.
    Anyway I think that was a very good decision which seems to be working well even
    at short text.
  created: '2014-10-27 20:29:54'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>Arabic geometric; hmm that's something more difficult that
    you can imagine. </p></blockquote>\r\nUnless we\u2019re talking about square kufic
    ;-)"
  created: '2014-10-27 21:31:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Nobody should expect them to live in poverty. That's exactly why we
    should fight cultural impoverishment.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's true that cultural impoverishment
    is a loss, which should be avoided. My point is, though, that in conditions of
    material poverty, escape from it becomes the first priority, and this leads to
    cultural damage when an alien culture holds the promise of escape from material
    poverty.\r\n\r\nMaking use of things from the outside, rather than assimilating
    them first, is the quickest and cheapest route to having them available. And telling
    desperate people to \"go slow\" is likely not to have the desired result.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, often we're not dealing with something as excusable as dire poverty -
    humans are naturally imitative as well, and so they will gratuitously imitate
    foreign models with some sort of prestige as well. But the less desperation is
    involved, the more a foreign model is likely to be just one alternative, which
    can end up enriching rather than overwhelming the borrower.\r\n\r\nThe real Myriad
    Arabic indeed shows that a sans-serif unstressed Arabic can be far more authentic
    and natural than the example you gave earlier as showing what not to do. Never
    mind cultural values - it's likely to be far more legible to a native reader of
    Arabic as well.\r\n\r\nStill, the techniques used in the negative example are
    not <em>always</em> wrong. Had the Latin typeface in question been <em>Clearview</em>
    instead of Myriad, then the expedient could be defended as necessary to allow
    the Arabic language to benefit from the legibility research that went into the
    highway typeface without doing it over again.\r\n\r\nSince legibility is what
    people are used to, though, the process shouldn't end with that first step - which
    is what happened in the typeface you rightly deem worthy of criticism."
  created: '2014-10-28 03:19:55'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Sooo\u2026 What about something like this? http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/abjad/swissra/"
  created: '2014-11-02 20:48:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@riccardo:\r\nThat one, although it follows Helvetica more closely than the
    real Arabic Myriad does the Latin Myriad, is still not in the same class as the
    Myriad-like face here criticized."
  created: '2014-11-02 23:27:09'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Hrant > Arabic has 28 letters (not counting extended letters used by other
    languages, such as Farsi)\r\nQuadibloc > one can say that Arabic has 28 letters,
    just as one can say that Hebrew has 22 letters. \r\n\r\n@ Arabic has not more
    than 19 letters covering all that used by Farsi, Jawi and other languages?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/QB3.3.1.pdf\r\n\r\nMartin
    Silvertant > Can you illustrate what kind of strange deviations you're employing
    there?\r\n\r\nAsk http://www.linotype.com/6732/arabic.html why they dismissed
    my fonts?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/YS-Aziz_1.pdf\r\nAnother example for
    what you have said?! > ... it's frustrating when you've done years of research
    on a subject and you get quickly dismissed just because the other person doesn't
    have a similar insight to verify the truth of what you say.\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-03 03:47:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Swissra isn't blindly Latinized like Khawaja, but I feel it's very poorly
    harmonized with its Latin; the two evoke completely different feelings.\r\n\r\nBTW
    there was an Arabic companion to Univers featured in Eye magazine a few years
    ago. Same problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-03 03:59:59'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: "From the swissra description:\r\n\"Swissra features sharply cut terminals,
    which are either horizontal or vertical. It also features closed apretures and
    a high x-height.\"\r\nWhat?! could any of you see the x in arabic letters or I'm
    missing something. I don't think this trend of latinizing the arabic typefaces
    going to be good for the culture. Since it's becoming ubiquitous, suddenly younger
    people will open their eyes and realize there is no new authentic design in the
    market."
  created: '2014-11-03 09:35:33'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: How doesn't it have an x-height though? I can see there is no strict barrier
    like there is in the Latin script, but you do have a division between ascenders
    and the main part of the script. Isn't the designer simply saying the bottom part
    of the letters is tall while the ascenders are short? Or is this an artifact from
    the latinization of the script that shouldn't be there?
  created: '2014-11-04 17:09:32'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: Yeah, he is trying to say that the middle part and the loops are large. But
    how he says it implies that he tries to change the proportion of the script to
    comply with latin. Well I think there is no reason for us to make our script look
    like latin. What am I saying is that this trend of latinization of arabic script
    would never exist if the arab world had never seen the latin script. We don't
    have such a thing in arabic script "x-height". You see it in many display arabic
    typefaces today simply because the designers wanted to make the arabic script
    look like latin or in reality make a hoax latin in arabic if you will.
  created: '2014-11-04 18:09:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are certainly vertical references in Arabic, but imagining the equivalent
    of an x-height (even if you don't make it match that of a Latin companion) generally
    throws off at least some of the proportions.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-04 18:27:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It is true that there is no letter that looks like \"x\" in Arabic. And,
    furthermore, while there are some letters that are taller than others, it is also
    true that the letters that aren't in the group of the tallest letters aren't all
    the same height. Even in Latin handwriting, the absolutely flat x-height line
    is present; it is not there in Arabic.\r\n\r\nBut one can avoid imposing the uniformity
    of the Latin script, and still change the relative height of the taller characters.
    If people refer to that as changing the \"x-height\", simply because they are
    not aware of a more appropriate term, that in itself is something I can't see
    as a concern... except in the more general sense that it is unfortunate that the
    dominance of the Latin script is such as to prevent either the development or
    the wide knowledge of a suitable vocabulary to discuss non-Latin script issues.\r\n\r\nPeople
    have to be able to talk even when they can't find the right words to use. Dictionaries
    only let you look up the meaning of a word once you have it, and I don't think
    a thesaurus would help with this either."
  created: '2014-11-05 07:37:46'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "But is it even a comprehensible way of conceptualising Arabic writing? \r\n\r\nI
    don't know the script, but I live in an area where most small businesses are run
    by people who've originally been taught writing in Arabic or Persian, and a notable
    aspect of the vernacular Latin-script signage here \u2013and even some of the
    large-scale sign lettering \u2013 is an extremely variant (and thus for a script
    conservative, \"wrong\") x-height. Whereas first-script Latin writers have the
    idea of x-height and baseline hardcoded as concepts for their own handwriting,
    imprinted in a malleable childhood age, this does not apply to later-life second-script
    latin writers who originally wrote in arabic script. I mean, the beautiful slanted
    handwriting style most Persian-speakers I know have (Nastaliq?) doesn't even have
    a baseline as such, let alone an x-height, so no wonder it doesn't translate readily
    into a four-heights understanding of Latin script!\r\n\r\n(Personally, by the
    way, I find the \"wrongness\" of the letters interesting and a potential source
    of inspiration, rather than something to be chided.)"
  created: '2014-11-05 08:13:15'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "\u064EQuadibloc> ... Even in Latin handwriting, the absolutely flat x-height
    line is present; it is not there in Arabic.\r\n\r\n@  Latin stands , bows @ prostrates
    for a fixed baseline. But Arabic goes like a duck sitting on a wave. So it is
    incorrect to talk about Arabic x-height?!\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Vladimir Tamari
      picture: 113527
    body: 'Bravo Aziz... even when the duck - a swan is a better more elegant example-  is
      not floating on ripples, but waddling on flat ground, it presents a curvaceous
      profile. By comparison to Arabic Latin is like  locomotives (the capitals)  pulling
      railway cars of equal height (the miniscules). Choo choo!  Unfortunately a whole
      generation of designers  is now enamoured some with making Arabic as much like
      Latin as possible.  The important thing about Eric Gill''s Sans is not just
      the simplification, (Johnston and many others before did it first) but that
      it was a beautiful and legible design, a generic distillation of traditional
      serif letters.  '
    created: '2014-11-06 13:59:03'
  created: '2014-11-05 08:14:58'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: "@ John \r\nLet me illustrate this the other way around. There are three vertical
    lines on the letter \"\u0633\u0640\" which is called teeth in persian simply because
    they look like teeth of a tomb. right? Imagine you have enough terms for latin
    letters but people are not aware of that simply because they don't read much material
    on the subject of latin typography as they do on persian typography and they try
    to refer to the bottom parts of lowercase \"m\" as teeth in a broad manner even
    though they don't look like teeth to the natives. What happens from that point
    is these shapes start to change and look like the parts form the letter \"\u0633\u0640\"
    because whenever they search for the term in any medium the letter \"\u0633\u0640\"
    comes to the screen. It's not a problem in anyway as long as it looks appropriate
    to the certain features of the script, but beyond that it just becomes something
    as would refer to as ugly. That is what is happening in my opinion in many arabic
    typefaces. It's just too much exaggeration. \r\n\r\nWe have terminologies of our
    own. Some people use the latin ones just because the arabic/persian terms are
    not accessible like latin terminologies. I'm sorry that it sounds like nagging,
    but it's very surprising that it keeps happening in many places and nobody cares.
    It doesn't seem right to me."
  created: '2014-11-05 10:48:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just in time!\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/dalton_maag/aktiv_grotesk_std_2/\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aktiv
    GrotesG_5709.png]"
  created: '2014-11-05 12:03:03'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Bahman Eslami > because the arabic/persian terms are not accessible like
    latin terminologies. \r\n\r\n@ In Arabic http://wadod.net/library/24/2484.rar
    In persian?\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-05 12:31:43'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: "@aziz\r\nYou can find the persian letters terminology in this book:\r\n[[http://mtif.org/p/book/4890/%D9%81%D8%B1%D9%87%D9%86%DA%AF-%D9%88%D8%A7%DA%98%DA%AF%D8%A7%D9%86-%D9%88-%D8%A7%D8%B5%D8%B7%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AD%D8%A7%D8%AA-%D8%AE%D9%88%D8%B4%D9%86%D9%88%DB%8C%D8%B3%DB%8C-%D9%88-%D9%87%D9%86%D8%B1-%D9%87%D8%A7%DB%8C-%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%B3%D8%AA%D9%87|A
    dictionary of calligraphy and the related arts (in farsi)]]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-05 18:01:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll try to catch up later on, but for now: FYI, FWIW just this morning on
    Twitter I asked Dalton Maag about Aktiv Grotesk's Arabic...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-05 19:12:36'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>What happens from that point is these shapes start to change
    and look like the parts form the letter \"\u0633\u0640\" because whenever they
    search for the term in any medium the letter \"\u0633\u0640\" comes to the screen.</blockquote>\r\nI
    think the risk is categorizing certain elements as though they belong to the same
    group and design them as such. Is that partially why the Arabic script is being
    Latinized? Speaking of x-height whereas you use different terminologies will only
    confuse the issue as well.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>We have terminologies of our own.
    Some people use the latin ones just because the arabic/persian terms are not accessible
    like latin terminologies.</blockquote>\r\nSo what to do you call the different
    heights? Are there English names for these terminologies?"
  created: '2014-11-16 08:50:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The main reason a non-Latin script is Latinized is that the designer (usually
    more of an artist...) thinks that makes his people happier by making his culture
    more Western... But the result is typically akin to this:\r\nhttp://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-30003865\r\n\r\nTerms:
    I've heard \"tooth\" and \"loop\" (the latter being taller).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-16 15:37:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Are there no terms for each height like baseline, x-height, cap height, body
    height etc.?\r\n\r\nDo you think a cultural shift in the Western world is needed
    before people stop with these practices in the Arabic script? This might be a
    misconception, but I have the feeling these non-Western cultures are poorly understood
    and generally disrespected, so this may give both parties the idea that the Western
    culture is something to live up to. In some ways perhaps it is, but I'm not sure
    this applies to the scripts we use or how we use them.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think
    the future of the Arabic script is though? Will it eventually come closer to the
    Latin script? Will traditions be upheld or is the script doomed given certain
    cultural shifts and the idea of a world culture?"
  created: '2014-11-16 23:41:40'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: "@Martin:\r\n\r\nIf you look at someones handwriting in the native script
    you can find similarities between the typefaces and the way hand writes letter
    shapes. Naturally when you write a sentence in latin and in whatever style you
    can imagine you will get a horizontal line that could imply the x-height. Google
    image search this term: \u062F\u0633\u062A \u0646\u0648\u0634\u062A\u0647  (which
    means handwriting in persian) and I dare you if you can find one example to show
    the same thing in arabic script. There is no same height rule in arabic script
    the way it exist in latin. If you ask someone to write arabic script with a strict
    height rule like x-height it wouldn't be natural for them (just try it!). If you
    take greek as an example of successful latinized script when entered type systems
    it's because it shares many similarities like x-height and separated letters as
    latin but arabic is cursive and fluid. It doesn't work that way. The only way
    that I could name latinized arabic typefaces is hoax latin in arabic."
  created: '2014-11-17 00:51:12'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: In this [[http://blog.daltonmaag.com/?p=1261|workshop]] from Azza Alameddine
    you can see how the match-making works and why match-making in arabic has been
    going in a wrong direction in the past decades. She has some good insights about
    how it should be done.
  created: '2014-11-17 11:21:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I don't think that attitudes in the West changing or not will matter when
    it comes to people in other societies choosing to imitate the West - because their
    reasons for such imitation have no real connection to any shortcomings the West
    perceives in their societies. \r\n\r\nInstead, it has to do with how they perceive
    the West, not how the West perceives them.\r\n\r\nSo, to take a less controversial
    example, look at movie posters in Korean that make their script look like heavy
    metal Fraktur or something else which has no resemblance to a Chinese brush stroke.
    (And the fact that their script is partly indigenous and partly derivative from
    another culture to begin with puts another face on the issue - why not abandon
    the foreign Chinese style for Korean for another foreign style, as of course the
    Korean alphabet could be done up to look like Eurostyle...)\r\n\r\nAmerica is
    the land of Hollywood and Playboy, Coca-Cola and Apple. It impresses foreigners
    for certain reasons, just as, say, France impresses foreigners for certain other
    reasons.\r\n\r\n(Although this is directly a response to Martin Silvertant's post,
    clearly its premise implies disagreement with Hrant Papazian's preceding post
    as well - imitation of the West for its glamor has little to do with the Arab
    Spring and its - from a Western perspective, as valid as I may feel that perspective
    to be - failure.)"
  created: '2014-11-17 17:51:57'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Vladimir Tamari > Unfortunately a whole generation of designers is now enamoured
    some with making Arabic as much like Latin as possible. \r\n\r\n@ ... because
    Arabic has more letters open to the sky than Latin; 8 of 19 (\u0627 \u0628 \u062A
    \u062B \u062F \u0630 \u0631 \u0632 \u0633 \u0634 \u0643 \u0644 \u0646 \u064A)
    compared to  5 of 26 (i j k l u v w x y) ?!\r\n<a href=\"http://qafilah.com/ar/%D9%81%D9%86-%D8%AA%D8%B5%D9%85%D9%8A%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%B1%D9%81-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A8%D9%8A/\">as
    published here</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-18 07:48:00'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks Bahman Eslami  for the link.\r\nThere the Intel Clear Arabic, designed
    by Na\xEFma Ben Ayed and <a href=\"http://hibastudio.com/hs-almaha/\">HS-Alamaha</a>
    are promising.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-18 08:08:04'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "That 'Matching Arabic\u2013Latin scripts in logotypes' workshop gave great
    insights. It's amazing to see these Arabic variants. I don't understand the H&M
    one though. I thought Vivienne Westwood and Balmain were particularly well done.
    Shouldn't the Arabic Balmain a bit lighter though?\r\n\r\nThe Arabic Gucci logo
    is particularly interesting to me because stylistically I don't really see a resemblance
    and yet I strongly associate the two in terms of quality. The Arabic logo has
    a certain sharpness and clarity which I see in the Latin Gucci as well.\r\n\r\nCould
    anyone possibly post some pictures of Arabic logos for which a Latin version has
    been added later? It seems harder to do than the other way around but that's just
    speculation. Does anyone have experience with both practices?"
  created: '2014-11-18 21:08:49'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Martin Silvertant >\r\n1. So what to do you call the different heights?\r\n2.
    Are there English names for these terminologies?\r\n3. Are there no terms for
    each height like baseline, x-height, cap height, body height etc.?\r\n\r\n@ Arabic
    does not dance on a tight rope. \u064DShe loves pinching all over the body (height)
    at different spots (entry points)  and wrestling till squatting then screwing
    on a springy bed as described  <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/28634#comment-161482\">here</a>
    ,  implemented by <a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/QB3.3.pdf\">QB</a> and
    applied <a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/YS-Aziz_1.pdf\">here</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-12-21 07:28:09'
date: '2012-05-02 11:28:38'
node_type: forum
title: Gill Sans Arabic

---
