---
author:
  name: emkeyser
body: "A house style of which I try to adhere is to set capitalized abbreviations
  and acronyms, in a running paragraph of text, as small caps. It's a convention that
  I am quite happy with, as setting them in full size caps makes them really jump
  off the page. I have run into two problems with this:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>How to
  set an acronym/abbreviation which falls at the beginning of a sentence. (\"NASA
  plans to launch another shuttle in 2020.\") For these instances, I will usually
  set the first letter as a full cap with the rest as small caps. This seems pretty
  satisfactory, but I wonder how others handle the same situation.</li>\r\n<li>How
  to set a mixed acronym/abbreviation in the middle of a sentence. (\"Under this agreement,
  DIA Inc. has complete...\") This issue is really causing me some grief this morning.
  \"DIA\" and \"Inc.\" both appear at other places in the paragraph\u2014mere lines
  away, but not previously paired\u2014so their settings should be consistent throughout
  the document. I have tried the following settings in the attached image, none of
  which has seemed satisfactory:<ul><li>Top: <em>DIA Inc.</em> set with full caps</li><li>Center:
  <em>DIA I</em> set in small caps, <em>nc.</em> set in minscule</li><li>Bottom: <em>DIA</em>
  set in small caps, <em>Inc.</em> set in mixed caps</li></ul></li></ol>\r\n\r\nI
  am not sure if these settings just look odd to me because they are unfamiliar due
  to the rare pairing of acronyms and abbreviations, or if there might be a setting
  which is more natural."
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'These issues might be caused by poorly designed (usually too small) small
    caps. They should be less intruding, yes, but when they look plain wrong with
    a genetive s or if you introduce a capitalised word in the sentence it''s nothing
    but bad design.Some type designers introduce mid caps (3/4 height) as a solution.
    I do see the relevance of just-above-x small caps in book design, but once you
    embark on more editorial stuff they''re rarely useful. '
  created: '2012-05-04 16:45:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "You are a bit quick with your judgement \"it's nothing but bad design\",
    especially when what you criticise is standard practice and there are good reasons
    for doing so, as you indicate right in the next sentence \"I do see the relevance
    of just-above-x small caps in book design\". After all, this is a special case.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    in this case set \"DIA\" in uppercase but at slightly smaller size, if it stands
    out a little then be it so. Or, if the author/editor allows and unless \"DIA Inc.\"
    is the official abbreviation, omit the \"Inc.\" from the abbreviation and use
    small caps as you would do with NASA.\r\n\r\n(Wasn't there an earlier discussion
    on this with quite good suggestions? Cannot find it.)"
  created: '2012-05-04 19:06:03'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'I said "when they look plain wrong". If that is standard practice, then the
    standard needs some reconsidering. Especially for editorial design. This and related
    issues are not uncommon: Cap vs. SC, SC vs genetive s, SC sticking out when its
    task is the exact opposite are all potential caveeats.'
  created: '2012-05-04 19:32:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'That said: The designer should, as Karsten said, consider breaking the typography
    rules when they don''t work.'
  created: '2012-05-04 19:35:27'
- author:
    name: McBain_v1
  body: Doesn't <strong>Bringhurst</strong> have something to say on this in his book?
  created: '2012-05-04 19:45:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree that <em>any</em> caps that are not visibly taller than the x-height
    are wrong. Just because it's a tradition does not make it a good idea.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>setting
    them in full size caps makes them really jump off the page.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDepends
    on the font of course. For something like a novel it's better to use a font with
    modest caps. It's mostly in reference books (where you have to scan for a proper
    noun or a date*) that large caps are more effective, and in those cases it's useful
    to have midcaps for extreme cases, like acronyms of three -or maybe four- letters
    or more - you probably never want to set \"FYROM\" in full-size caps.  :-)\r\n\r\n*
    Where additionally the numerals should be cap-height (or at least large).\r\n\r\nThere
    was a recent thread strongly related to this. But lately even Google can't seem
    to crack Typophile...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-04 21:05:56'
- author:
    name: emkeyser
  body: "Thanks for all the feedback. Who needs Bringhurst when you have Typophile!
    (Kidding; Bringhurst doesn't really address the issue specifically in Elements,
    therefore the reason for this thread.)\r\n\r\nThe font is Celeste Pro, so it is
    certainly no slouch typeface. Its small caps are larger than x-height, though
    only slightly. Most of the time I really appreciate the subtle qualities of its
    small caps. It is only rarely (<1/year) that I run into an issue like this, but
    I've seen it for a few years running now, so I thought I'd ask. The project currently
    is a newsletter, though I've run into the issue with Annual Reports as well.\r\n\r\nI
    ended up setting \"DIA\" in small caps, leaving \"Inc.\" capitalized, and scaling
    up the small caps a bit as a make-do (116% vertically, 108% horizontally). I know
    it deforms the characters a bit, but I don't have the budget nor time to add a
    proper 3/4 cap to the font (not to mention getting permission). \r\n\r\nScaling
    the full caps down to 3/4 caps proportions and setting \"DIA\" in full caps at
    a smaller size both left the characters a bit too thin. Scaling small caps up
    left them a little dark, but much less noticeable than a reduced full cap, which
    is too light. This also lets me make the change consistent across the document.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-04 22:25:14'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "A recent discussion:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/89876\r\n\r\nfrode frank,
    I agree with you. If the standard practice looks wrong, it's time for a change. "
  created: '2012-05-04 23:38:10'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "In all of these examples, I would use all small caps. There's nothing wrong
    with starting a sentence with a small cap. Using a full cap would look stranger,
    I think. \"DIA Inc.\" With DIA in small caps would look fine to me.\r\n\r\nHrant
    \u2014 As a book designer, I am bothered by small caps that are visibly taller
    than x-height, and usually consider this a serious reason not to use the font.
    I will sometimes shrink the small caps by a point to get them down to x-height.
    There are rarely situations where this is visually or logically ambiguous. If
    a genitive s is pretty much indistinguishable from a small cap s, that's fine
    with me.\r\n\r\n(Well, most of the time.)"
  created: '2012-05-05 04:21:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I am bothered by small caps that are visibly taller than x-height</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCan
    you identify why?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 04:48:30'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Very good question. I don't know the answer.\r\n\r\nBut here are some thoughts:
    I think it's particularly troubling in combination with oldstyle numbers, where
    I would expect the size of the small caps to match the x-height of the numerals.
    Since abbreviations and numbers often go hand in hand \u2014 9:30 PM, 640 BCE
    \u2014 this slight difference in height can look haphazard. It might be a similar
    situation with NASA's or UFOs \u2014 I feel like the slight height difference
    is noticeable enough to be distracting, but not large enough to seem deliberate.
    \r\n\r\nI will say, though, that I do not always use small caps for abbreviations.
    For each individual project I'll choose to use small caps for some or all or none
    of the following:\r\n\r\nacronyms \u2014 UNESCO\r\ninitialisms \u2014 PTA\r\nabbreviations
    with periods \u2014 U.S.A.\r\nMixed case \u2014 Ph.D. (actually I don't think
    I would ever used small caps here)\r\n\"All caps\" for stylistic purposes \u2014
    I said, STOP!\r\nHeadings and editorial emphasis\r\netc\r\n\r\nAnd which of these
    I employ will depend mostly on the feel and aesthetic of the piece, and where
    it falls on the continuum of literary to journalistic/academic. It also depends
    on what the small caps look like in the particular font.\r\n\r\nIn some contexts,
    particularly academic, small caps that are not very small may actually be the
    least obtrusive, as they more closely resemble what the reader expects to see.
    In more literary contexts, I like them as small as possible."
  created: '2012-05-05 05:11:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Jeeze. This one again. I can think of 1000s of examples where the use of
    small caps in place of full caps looks awkward. Give me $5.00 each & I'll list
    them & be able to retire. Old favorites: MoMA. GMbH. The G.I. Bill.  \r\n\r\nAs
    you've poionted out, any short abbreviation that is part of a word pair where
    one of the words is a capped proper noun with the rest lower cased  letters, (DIA
    Inc, the G.I. Bill, etc.) Or, any mixed upper & lower case abbreviation/acronym
    with  c, o, s, u, v, or w in them. Or, any  mixed upper &  lower case abbreviation/acronym
    with a lower-case letter that has an ascender, or even a descender.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the deal. No matter what you do, there will be situations where either choice
    will look awkward. You have to make a choice which awkwardness to accept. The
    absolute wrong thing to do is to blindly follow a rule that doesn't have general
    acceptance, or appeal to an authority (particularly a disputed one) who represents
    about 5% of the audience.\r\n\r\nHow about this. Set a longish text and change
    all the naturally occurring full caps to small caps. Take a look, do you like
    it? I'd guess there is a certain percentage of people who would say \"yes.\" What
    can one say to them? Recommend they take up one of the CJK languages?"
  created: '2012-05-05 12:30:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Nice post. Thanks!\r\n\r\nAnd Mr Keyser's solution seems to be a good one."
  created: '2012-05-05 13:03:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>and scaling up the small caps a bit as a make-do (116% vertically,
    108% horizontally). \r\n\r\nYes, we use non-proportional scaling to get good (i.e.,
    effective) small caps run into text a fair bit. The problems with doing this in
    InDesign are two. The first is you can't scale up a letter without also changing
    it's weight. To my eye, 107% is about as far as you can go. Obviously, it depends
    on the letter and the font. Since we do this globally as a part of a character
    style for run-in small caps, \"depending on the letter\" drops out -- they're
    all affected.\r\n\r\nThe second one is a bit more subtle: If there is any kerning,
    it will be blocked between a scaled and unscaled letter. For example, if you have
    a scaled-up small cap D and a program kern between D.sc and quoteright, that kerning
    will be blocked. IIRC, you *can* put it in by hand...\r\n\r\nIt is for such reasons
    I like to make the changes to the characters in the font rather than in the applications
    program. Done in the font,  the weight increase can be adjusted, and kerning will
    remain programmatic. BTW, I have absolutely no problem with a non-proportional
    scaling of the small caps, depending on how they were originally drawn."
  created: '2012-05-05 13:37:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>The absolute wrong thing to do is to blindly follow a rule that
    doesn't have general acceptance</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf you're blind, certainly
    do follow the masses. If you can see, think for yourself.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Set
    a longish text and change all the naturally occurring full caps to small caps.
    Take a look, do you like it?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou mean even just single caps
    for first sentence words and proper nouns? I've never heard anybody [here] advocate
    that. To me that might only make sense if the font has defectively large caps.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 14:49:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>You mean even just single caps for first sentence words and proper
    nouns? I've never heard anybody [here] advocate that. </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm advocating
    it as an experiment. It will show you how much you can tolerate with small capping.\r\n\r\nIt
    mirrors a friend of mine's experiment, which involved taking out all the word
    spaces and finding he could still read the text. That was suppose to be evidence
    that very tight setting was a good thing.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nAs the man said,
    \"We've already determined what you are, we're just haggling over price.\"\r\n\r\nSlow
    down & read both posts, Hrant."
  created: '2012-05-05 17:21:23'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "Same debate between [[http://blog.fawny.org/2010/01/11/goreschoice/|Joe Clark]]
    and [[http://ministryoftype.co.uk/words/article/small_caps/|Aegir Hallmundur]].\r\n\r\nI
    personally have to agree with Joe here. Every time I see small cap acronyms in
    a book I get excited like a child on Christmas morning, but they don't actually
    make things easier to read, particularly in the situations you brought up. Scaling
    down and tracking out full caps just a tiny bit works fine for me."
  created: '2012-05-05 21:05:48'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "You can just forget about the bullshit elite prescriptivist notion that acronyms
    have to be set in small caps. They don\u2019t. And in fact, they look ridiculous
    99% of the time. Then you bump into the inevitable and not even very uncommon
    edge cases, like postal codes (M5W 1E6)  or acronyms that include numbers or punctuation
    (A380, 3GS, GT-R).\r\n\r\nJust type the damned capital letters.\r\n\r\nYour solution
    for \u201CNASA\u201D\_is particularly half-assed. Even small-caps apologists would
    lampoon that one, and rightly."
  created: '2012-05-06 19:15:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, and just use damned Times...\r\n\r\nJoe, you can't ignore the font
    at hand (which often one is not allowed to change). If its caps are too large
    your advice* will often produce lousy results (except if the smallcaps are even
    more messed up**). That's why many people prefer smallish full caps*** but sometimes
    (like \"FYROM\") even those will be too large. Good typography is never \"Whatever\".\r\n\r\n*
    Which I would equate to saying something like \"just set the text at 12 point\".\r\n\r\n**
    Which I admit is too often indeed the case.\r\n\r\n*** And/or largish smallcaps.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    Craig's suggestion of also choosing the numeral style carefully is solid (and
    frankly should be obvious).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-06 19:44:01'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "emkeyser \u2013 <cite>... at the beginning of a sentence. (\"NASA plans to
    launch another shuttle in 2020.\") For these instances, I will usually set the
    first letter as a full cap with the rest as small caps.</cite>\r\nk.l. \u2013
    <cite>... and use small caps as you would do with NASA.</cite>\r\n\r\nI missed
    the \"set the first letter as a full cap\" which in fact better be either all
    caps or all small caps."
  created: '2012-05-06 20:07:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have <em>seen</em> acronyms set in small caps, primarily in books from
    the United Kingdom. In the United States, however, this is definitely not standard
    practice.\r\n\r\nI don't dispute that this makes acronyms look less jarring, compared
    to the use of ordinary full-sized caps. But because it isn't normal practice,
    one shouldn't be surprised that some typefaces won't be designed to facilitate
    this practice - and so the small caps might not be tall enough to work well in
    the particular special cases outlined.\r\n\r\nAlong with mid-caps, another way
    to avoid capital letters being quite so distracting might be to use a typeface
    in which the capital letters are somewhat condensed."
  created: '2012-05-06 21:40:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Joe - Your lengthy response to Aegir is full of passion but ignores what
    is usually the problem: using text fonts with small caps that are too small (at
    x-height).'
  created: '2012-05-06 22:44:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>I think it's particularly troubling in combination with oldstyle
    numbers, where I would expect the size of the small caps to match the x-height
    of the numerals.</blockquote>\r\n \r\nThis trouble might be better solved with
    oldstyle numbers with a larger \"x\"-height than with small caps lining at the
    alphabetical meanline? "
  created: '2012-05-06 23:21:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Stephen, that the typeface in question has too small small caps, as Frode
    and you claim, is not <a href=\"http://twitter.com/typographica/status/199252048296947712\"
    target=\"_blank\">\"the real problem\"</a>:\r\n\r\n1) The typeface's small caps
    are well sized for book typography, i.e. setting author names in cap plus small
    caps. Typeface is <a href=\"#comment-508651\">FF Celeste</a>. I trust that Dr
    Burke, as scholar-designer, can design a book typeface. I trust that FontShop
    only adds quality typefaces to the FF library. Funny that you recommend to <a
    href=\"http://twitter.com/typographica/status/199459217009156096\" target=\"_blank\">\"buy
    new type\"</a>.\r\n\r\n2) It is the typographer who chooses and uses a typeface.
    If the typographer's decisions contradict each other \u2013&nbsp;text having mixed
    caps/lowercase abbreviation / using small caps / putting mixed abbreviations into
    the small caps category / using typeface with pretty tall caps&nbsp;\u2013 then
    the sum of these amount to asking for trouble. The typeface's fault?\r\n\r\nAlternatives:
    Choose type with larger small caps. Use caps at reduced size. Use caps. Choose
    type with smaller caps, then you do not need small caps for abbreviations (mixed
    or not). There are many possible problems \u2013 and solutions. Some involve relaxing
    the \"use small caps\" dictum which leads to ...\r\n\r\nMr Clark's <a href=\"http://blog.fawny.org/2010/01/11/goreschoice/\">blog
    post</a> is enlightening in that it deals with an education and followership phenomenon
    by way of a typographic detail: Typographers learn that good typography means
    adhering to some Bringhurst- or Tschichold-compiled checklist of rules and later
    continue to adhere to them strictly. (Sometimes not only to make good typography
    but also to demonstrate that they know what good typography is, or putting it
    the other way round, in fear to look like an ignorant when not doing so.) I read
    the post not as being against Bringhurst or Tschichold but against following any
    one or textbook too strictly."
  created: '2012-05-07 14:52:46'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Sure, small cap height is a design decision and one size doesn't fit all
    needs. I just happen to prefer small caps slightly larger than x-height for a
    majority of the work I do, and that happens to be a reasonable solution to the
    common problem we're discussing.\r\n\r\n<blockquote> There are many possible problems
    \u2013 and solutions.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm with you. I'm just adding one more
    solution to the pot. My tweet sounds more absolute than it should have been.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    read the post not as being against Bringhurst or Tschichold but against following
    any one or textbook too strictly.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's a fair reading and
    I agree with the sentiment. I just found it odd that the typeface design solution
    was missing."
  created: '2012-05-07 15:06:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Karsten, fonts don't make mistakes, but people do, and that includes Burke,
    FontFont, Bringhurst, and you. I don't understand the resistance to appreciating
    that in some fonts the caps are large enough that setting them in sequence ruins
    things, and if their smallcaps aren't too small it solves that problem. Maybe
    this is yet another case of Modernism's fetish for Simplicity rearing its ugly
    head? Dunno.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-07 15:14:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thinking about this some more, I think there's a better explanation than
    -what I view as- Modernism's clash with true functionality. An attempt at some
    cause-and-effect historical analysis:\r\n\r\nReading has slowly been shifting
    from an act of reference (where you often look up proper nouns and dates) to an
    act of entertainment (where you read once, linearly). More significantly, acronyms
    used to be virtually non-existent, but now they pepper most texts we read. These
    two phenomena have combined to cause the cap-size requirements of text to shift,
    but many of the fonts we use predate this, which sets up a conflict between conservatism
    (which is basically following the rules of a previous generation) and progress
    (making new rules, which is hard to get right) in the realm of \"proper\" cap
    size(s).\r\n\r\nType designers concerned with the full-caps of \"old-fashioned\"
    fonts being too large (and the smallcaps being too small to adequately sub in)
    make them smaller (and/or make the smallcaps larger) and like-minded type users
    choose fonts along the same lines. This is not the same as saying that one should
    avoid full-caps as a rule (certainly not for grammatically capitalized words).
    It simply means that a good cap size depends on context. I think this is a nice
    refinement, even though it increases complexity. Just like making the effort of
    choosing a font beyond Times and company.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-07 19:59:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Karsten: I did in fact not see the image. I did not suggest Celeste was a
    poor design, but that designing (and marketing) a face for editorial work with
    such low sc is.\r\n\r\nSmall caps in book work is IMO a display feature, much
    more than a text feature: they are intended to mark the beginning of a chapter,
    contrast with capitals or sit on it's own line for subheads, running heads etc.
    In editorial design the function is the opposite."
  created: '2012-05-07 21:28:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Good historical perspective Hrant.\r\n\r\nI would add that when words (not
    acronyms) were set in small caps, they were letterspaced (the traditional precept
    of all cap setting), in which situation having them lower case x-height was actually
    preferable to taller. Similarly, old style \uFB01gures, tabular of course, were
    very open in \uFB01t.\r\n\r\nNow, text is much more tightly \uFB01tted\u2014kerned,
    ragged, and with word- and letter-space justi\uFB01cation, and word spaces are
    smaller. In these circumstances, that spacious treatment of \uFB01gures and x-height
    small caps is out of place. "
  created: '2012-05-07 22:09:08'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>I would add that when words (not acronyms) were set in small
    caps, they were letterspaced</blockquote>How about both, in the same paragraph,
    on the same line?!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1834_Cyr_s_3999.c.gif]\r\n\r\nHere
    the titles (Empress, Monarchess, Sovereign) are set in small caps without spaces,
    and the names of their most august carriers (Yekaterina, Pavel) dutifully letterspaced.
    The source is [Gavriil Derzhavin.] <em><a href=\"http://bit.ly/IAXWVh\">Obyasneniya
    na Sochineniya Derzhavina</a></em>. St.Petersburg: Alexander Smirdin, 1834, p.
    1."
  created: '2012-05-08 20:11:07'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<blockquote>I just found it odd that the typeface design solution was missing.
    [Stephen]</blockquote>\r\n\r\nActually this was the first solution offered, by
    Frode. Given that the original question was typography related, and its wording
    implied that typography and typeface are not among the variables, a type design
    related answer seemed besides the point to me.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I don't understand
    the resistance to appreciating that in some fonts the caps are large enough that
    setting them in sequence ruins things ... [Hrant]</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWow. I said
    that the first answer does not address the question, reminded that smaller small
    caps do fulfill a typographic purpose, and added that typography offers enough
    variables to address any problem in more than one way. This is rather the opposite
    of resisting to appreciating anything.\r\nMy own typefaces, by the way, may indicate
    that I am not a fan of tall caps because they may cause problems.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I try to resist, in fact, is commenting on otherones' typefaces because (whatever
    I may think of them based on my conception of type and anticipated use of type)
    I am certain that their designers had good reasons for making the design decisions
    they made (based on their conception of type and anticipated use of type)."
  created: '2012-05-11 15:21:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If I misunderstood you, I'm sorry. There are others [here] however that do
    clearly seem to think smallcaps are an affectation.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I am certain
    that their designers had good reasons for making the design decisions they made</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo
    me that's a very peculiar stance, especially when it concerns a craft. Any decision
    comes in part from misconceptions, and limits on time. For example Mrs Eaves has
    poor spacing. It's OK to say that. And in your own work, aren't there things you
    now realize were wrong? In my case I see problems with my work all the time, and
    sometimes I even have to ignore them. And sometimes others -because they can be
    more objective, or they have more experience, at least in a certain aspect of
    the craft- can see such problems before you. Isn't it nice when they help you
    see them?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-11 16:27:18'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Of course, based on my conception of type there are things that others do
    that I don't appreciate and things that I did that I would not do again. But first
    of all I want to understand why things were made the way they were made, be it
    a piece of design or a text or anything else. Something that appears wrong at
    first glance may make perfect sense after considering it a bit and putting it
    in context of the problem it was made to solve. (I got into type because I found
    it illogical that, in Times, x-height serifs of n vs v started at different height
    and set out to "correct" that. I prefer to not comment any further on my former
    self.) That does not mean that everything is right, though ... Discussing work
    is necessary but, I think, more fruitful when done in private. It allows both
    sides to be frank, without one side looking like a fool and the other like the
    expert coming to the rescue. It also allows discussing both sides' conceptions,
    the critic needs to know the conception on which the work is based if he wants
    to offer more than an opinion, the one criticised in turn needs to know the critic's
    conception to make sense of and evaluate the criticism. Unless one of them is
    an absolute beginner, any clear-cut right/wrong is likely to disappear in the
    course of this discussion.
  created: '2012-05-11 18:38:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree totally with most of what you wrote, especially with the need to
    put each person's personal objectives in context. Please see my second comment
    here:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/56183109@N02/6964823544/in/photostream/\r\n\r\nHowever
    I see a great many advantages to doing a critique in public, not least that it's
    dangerous to rely on too few people; and sometimes the best feedback will come
    from a totally unexpected, unsolicited source. And if a person is too sensitive
    to criticism, that's his loss. Survival of the fittest! It's also relevant how
    useful a critique (or really any discussion) is for the person doing it: it forces
    him to think more clearly, and quite often he learns something himself! And this
    is amplified when it has do be done in public.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-11 18:58:14'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Your point is valid, Karsten. I did not need to shout \u201Cbad design\u201D.
    I apologize for that.\r\n\r\nHowever, I do honestly think that what you consider
    standard practice is a misconception when applied to contemporary editorial design. "
  created: '2012-05-11 22:29:29'
date: '2012-05-04 16:13:13'
title: Small Caps Setting in Body Text

---
