---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "The image here:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/metamers_of_moby_dick_3908.jpg]\r\n\r\ncomes
  from a 2011 <em>Nature Neuroscience</em> paper entitled \u201CMetamers of the Ventral
  Stream.\u201D The intention is to provide a visualization of <em>representation</em>
  of printed text in the periphery. \r\n\r\nIn \u201CPeripheral vision and pattern
  recognition: A review,\u201D (<em>Journal of Vision</em> 2011), Hans Strasburger,
  et. al., write: \u201CIt is commonly thought that blurriness of vision is the main
  characteristic of [\u201Cseeing sidelong\u201D]. Yet [Jerome] Lettvin [\u201COn
  Seeing Sidelong,\u201D <em>The Sciences</em>, 1976] [\u2026] insisted that any theory
  of peripheral vision exclusively based on the assumption of blurriness is bound
  to fail: \u201CWhen I look at something it is as if a pointer extends from my eye
  to an object. The \u2018pointer\u2019 is my gaze, and what it touches I see most
  clearly. Things are less distinct as they lie farther from my gaze. It is not as
  if these things go out of focus\u2014but rather it\u2019s as if somehow they lose
  the quality of form\u201D\u201D\r\n\r\nIn the image the red dot indicates where
  the \u2018pointer\u2019 touches down.\r\n\r\nThe science behind metamers is explained
  in the <em>Nature Neuroscience</em> paper available at: http://www.jeremyfreeman.net/public/downloads/Freeman-Simoncelli-2011-Metamers.pdf.
  The Strasburger, et. al., paper is at: http://www.journalofvision.org/content/11/5/13.full.pdf+html.\r\n\r\nIn
  a 2012 (<em>Journal of Vision</em>) paper \u201CA summary statistic representation
  in peripheral vision explains visual search,\u201D  Ruth Rosenholtz et. al., use
  this science to generate metamers or mongrels of patches of text or shapes, and
  to introduce a notion of patch discriminability. Applied to printed text, patch
  discriminability would translate to Hrant\u2019s notion of bouma divergence. For
  Rosenholtz, et. al., visual patch discriminability using metamer stimuli predicts
  ease of visual search. So for our purposes, gauging patch discriminability might
  help us get a handle on and test the impact of bouma divergence (or optimizing notan)
  on the parafoveal preview benefit in reading. \r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to
  test using metamers of </em>Moby Dick</em> if the kind of manipulations Hrant envisions
  to enhance bouma divergence yield patches with significantly greater patch discriminability.
  Whether they do or not, the graphic appears to supply a more telling representation
  of what visual information is available to parafoveal vision then we've had until
  now.\r\n\r\nThe Rosenholtz paper is here: http://www.journalofvision.org/content/12/4/14\r\n\r\nPeter"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What a cool image.\r\nLet me try to wrap my head around this...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 03:12:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Very interesting, Peter.\r\n\r\nOn the subject of perception in the periphery,
    I have a quite good photo of Denis Pelli's final slide from last week's <em>Reading
    Digital</em> conference, which I will post here once I have confirmed some details
    of what is shown. It involves a technique developed by one of Denis' grad students
    to ameliorate the effects of crowding."
  created: '2012-05-05 03:42:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "By the way, Jeremy Freeman and Eero P. Simoncelli, the writers of the <em>Metamers</em>
    paper write: \u201CWe envision that our model could be used to optimize fonts,
    letter spacing or line spacing for robustness to crowding effects, potentially
    improving reading performance.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnother dimension of this line of
    research is that these \u201Cseeing sidelong\u201D hypotheses conflict with the
    conventional interpretations of the results of eye movement studies using the
    \u2018moving window\u2019 and \u2018boundary\u2019 technique that claim the reader
    is gathering <em>letter</em> information in parafoveal preview to facilitate word
    recognition. Kevin Larson adopted this interpretation to make his case for parallel
    letter recognition in \u201CThe Scince of Word Recognition.\u201D \r\n\r\nThe
    most we could probably say is that the reader is gathering summary statistics
    pooled over multi-letter patches from parafoveal preview to facilitate word recognition
    and control eye movements and skipping."
  created: '2012-05-05 13:10:52'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "When setting up a joke, Jay Leno occasionally cautions his audience, \u201CDon\u2019t
    get ahead of me.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhile we are actually wading in a sea of visual
    perception, we imagine that we are swimming in a stream of consciousness; this
    illusion generally proves to be useful.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 18:10:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I've not heard back from Denis Pelli yet, so can't give all the details,
    but I'll post this image now because it seems relevant and interesting. This photograph
    shows Denis explaining work done by one of his grad students, who used eye-tracking
    and software to reduce constrast of text outside the immediate context of fixations
    (indicated by the red dot), and hence reduce crowding effect on word recognition
    in the near parafovea. I don't recall the exact result, but there was a significant
    improvement in reading speed among test subjects.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pellirit_4373.jpg]"
  created: '2012-05-05 19:23:47'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "'...mongrels of patches...'\r\n\r\nWhat a great phrase! \r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-05-05 19:35:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Was the ghosting changed based on a saccade being initiated? If so, were
    subjects in fact able to make long saccades into the low-contrast area?\r\n2)
    Why even bother showing \"second\"?\r\n3) What wpm are we talking about?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-05 20:38:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "As I said, I'm hoping to get full details from Denis. The slide came at the
    end of his presentation and represented 'late breaking news' that wasn't covered
    in the older paper [<a href=\"http://psych.nyu.edu/pelli/pubs/pelli2008uncrowded-complete.pdf\">PDF</a>]
    on which the presentation was based.\r\n\r\n1. Good question. Might there be a
    an impact on saccade cueing, even if there is a net gain in reading speed?\r\n\r\n2.
    I don't know for sure. It could be simply so as to prevent an unfamiliar visual
    experience in the fixation by maintaining symmetry. But I've not understood whether
    there is actually <em>no</em> information gleaned from the left of a fixation
    during reading. It seems to me that, at least, information from that side of the
    fixation could be used to confirm reading from the previous fixation or help trigger
    a regression.\r\n\r\n3. Again, I'm awaiting details, but it seems to me that what
    matters in the study is relative wpm speeds, not absolute."
  created: '2012-05-05 23:06:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I\u2019ve always thought peripheral vision was quantized, rather than uniformly
    blurry.\r\nI don\u2019t believe distress (the \u201Cmetamer\u201D shown) is an
    adequate metaphor, either.\r\nI suggest low res bitmapping.\r\nSpeaking of analogies
    from technology, how about the way the blind spot is \uFB01lled in?\r\nJust like
    Photoshop\u2019s clone tool.\r\nAnd if one sees the blind spot cloned in that
    manner, wouldn\u2019t that suggest that there is a huge element of projected meaning
    shaping the periphery, not just raw interpretation of shapes? So what one \u201Csees\u201D
    already has a primitive typo-matrix-like form (because the reader is aware of
    the kind of document being read, so expects a certain kind of text to be in a
    certain place), assumed to have the fundamental structure of proto-text, not the
    decayed appearance of processed text.\r\n\r\nAnd why do we assume that the image
    seen in the fovea is sharp and fully detailed like a photograph? If non-typographers
    can\u2019t see the difference between Times and Century, why do we represent what
    they see by a fully-detailed image? Surely we only see what we recognize.\r\n\r\nJust
    because light falls on the retina, doesn\u2019t mean that it becomes information
    which has to be fully processed. There must be some redundancy built in, to predictively
    turn off rods and cones deemed irrelevant once a certain amount of semantic closure
    has occurred.\r\n\r\nAs Blake observed, if the doors of perception were cleansed,
    everything would appear as it is\u2014infinite. "
  created: '2012-05-06 05:26:28'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Perhaps the term \u2018visualization\u2019 in my initial post was misleading.\r\n\r\nIn
    a 1971 paper Herman Bouma introduced a series of shape descriptions of letters
    around terms focussing on sidedness, expressedness (disturbed or undisturbed;
    rectangular or round), aspect (oblique or rectilinear), closure (or the lack of
    it) , extendedness. He did this with an eye on representation in the parafovea.\r\n\r\nThe
    metamers are not literal images of representation in the periphery, but statistically
    representative simulations that show to what degree location, aspect, expressedness,
    closure (or lack of it) and extendedness are compromised in crowded parafoveal
    vision.\r\n\r\nThe  compromise is large enough to inhibit or prevent sufficiently
    automatic and rapid visual word-form resolution or letter identification to support
    robust word recognition. \r\n\r\nThe other side of the decrement is that what
    (of expressedness, closure, aspect, etc) is preserved seems to be at just the
    right level of informativeness to facilitate effective saccade planning, and provide
    a priming-like preview benefit.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-06 15:46:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, what happens at the retinal level may indeed be akin to low resolution
    bitmapping, but the metamers show what happens in the \u2018ventral stream\u2019
    (as the title of the metamer paper indicates).\r\n\r\nThe ventral stream is the
    \u2018belly\u2019 or bottom part of the brain that includes the visual cortex
    and what has been dubbed the Visual Word Form Area. (The term Visual Word Form
    Area is controversial \u2014 my working tag for it is Intrinsic Integration Interface
    \u2014 but that's another story).\r\n\r\nThere is a \u2018cortical magnification
    factor\u2019 as information travels through the visual cortex, which compounds
    the issues surrounding the coarseness of the representation at the retinal level*,
    forcing a \u2018pooling\u2019 or \u2018compulsory averaging\u2019 of featural
    and positional statistics. The positional uncertainty and structural ambiguities
    captured in the metamers are the result of the compulsory averaging and pooling.
    \r\n\r\nSince researchers are now able to quantify the degree of pooling, accurate
    simulations of positional uncertainty and structural ambiguities are available
    using metamers.\r\n\r\n*[adding to clarify] representation at the retinal level
    is constrained or limited by the lower density of rods and cones than in the fovea."
  created: '2012-05-06 18:13:39'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "While the level of scholarship in this thread is impressive, I am still left
    wondering what the practical implications or applications might be.\r\n\r\nHas
    anyone come close to developing a formula to delineate particularly effective
    letterforms; or, do patterns of recognition suggest an optimal method of grouping
    words together for maximum apprehension or clarity in conveying concept?"
  created: '2012-05-06 19:58:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>what the practical implications or applications might be</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat
    is of course the central question. But look what happens to the /y in \"myself\"
    and \"involuntary\" in the top image; I would suggest that if the descender terminal
    (which is in effect a serif - hint, hint) were heftier you might (at least sometimes)
    end up with at least a blip in the metamer instance, leading to a better bouma.
    Ergo: timid extenders are dysfunctional.\r\n\r\nAnd I have no doubt that there
    are deeper guidelines to be formulated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-06 20:33:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Metamers of Moby Dick \u2014 or any other text \u2014 in a condensed sans
    serif font, versus metamers of the same text in a non-condensed version of the
    same typeface might indicate that patch discriminability is significantly compromised
    in the condensed, signaling a possible reduced parafoveal preview benefit and
    a disruption of eye-movement mechanics. Patch discriminability might be compromised,
    because, for example, the less pronounced obliquity, as in the arms of the x or
    the legs of the w might make the summary statistics of patches containing these
    forms less divergent from those that don't, hence less informative.\r\n\r\nThe
    predictions could than be tested in the domain of eye-movement and parafoveal
    preview benefit research, and the results used to give evidential support to our
    intuitions about typeface selection for extended texts. It might also become possible
    to <em>plot</em> the ratio of condensation to the disruption of the parafoveal
    preview benefit and optimal eye-movement mechanics.\r\n\r\nThe effect of serifs
    on patch discriminability could also be looked at.\r\n\r\nSo no direct formula
    to delineate particularly effective letterforms, but contextual knowledge about
    what kind of manipulations have what sort of effect, and in what part of the reading
    process.\r\n\r\n[cross-posted with Hrant's post just above, whose observation
    is I think correct]"
  created: '2012-05-06 20:55:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "So, Peter, in Earth-speak what you're saying is we don\u2019t have the data
    needed to determine whether or not condensed a typeface overall impairs the process
    of recognition; but we do know that condensing <em>certain</em> letterforms\u2014specifically,
    w and x\u2014does impair.\r\n\r\nAdd Hrant\u2019s point that descenders facilitates
    disambiguation\u2014e.g., /i/j \xB7 /v/y\u2014and you come up with a VIJWXY rule
    of thumb: news I can use. Cool.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-06 23:31:07'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: VIJWXY rule of thumb?
  created: '2012-05-07 00:22:53'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Yep. Don't go all-thumbs on them.
  created: '2012-05-07 14:15:29'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>VIJWXY rule of thumb?</em>\r\n\r\nSomehow, that arrangement of letters
    looks better than \u201CThe i\xB7j/w\xB7x/v\xB7y Disambiguation Imperative.\u201D"
  created: '2012-05-07 16:33:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's more complex than that.  :-)\r\nFrom my work in 1998: http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/m&s.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-07 17:12:24'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "\u201CThe i\xB7j/w\xB7x/v\xB7y Disambiguation Imperative.\u201D?"
  created: '2012-05-07 22:01:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Peter: <em>\u2026the metamers show what happens in the \u2018ventral stream\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    how do they show it? They look like a real image and not enough like a diagram\u2014homunculism.
    They are a picture impersonating a diagram (or is it vice versa?), and will be
    interpreted as what peripheral vision \u201Creally\u201D looks like.\r\n\r\nThey
    are a piece of graphic design (see the method quoted below) which may be able
    to simulate experimental results. But are they any less of a metaphor than simple
    blurring?\r\n\r\nThey are misleading, because they are high res. They (and the
    other grunged-up photos) lend allure to the research, but they are somewhat of
    a misrepresentation, because even scientists who read and understand the paper
    will nonetheless think that this is what the retinal \uFB01eld of vision looks
    like, when in fact <em><strong>it doesn\u2019t look like anything!</strong></em>\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CSynthetic
    images were then generated by initializing them with samples of Gaussian white
    noise and iteratively adjusting them (using a variant of gradient descent) until
    they matched the model responses of the original image (see Online Methods).\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    assume that blurring was also used to bring the noised image back to a consistent
    resolution across the entire image (why?).\r\n\r\nThis is a fairly common Photoshop
    technique: \uFB01rst you distress the image in a rough and graphic manner, then
    you smooth it so that it looks more naturalistic. A gradient mask blends the \uFB01ltered
    selection into the rest of the image. It may be used in retouching skin, for instance,
    to tone down blemishes.\r\n\r\nThere are several deconstructed typefaces, mostly
    designed in the early 1990s, that might also be considered to represent what happens
    in the ventral stream, but with a degree of simple formality in their distress.
    Types such as Arbitrary Sans suggest an alternative en-masse effect to the trope
    of this research, which reminded me of this from <em>Casablanca</em>: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Casablanca_4596.jpg]"
  created: '2012-05-07 22:44:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>\u201CThe i\xB7j/w\xB7x/v\xB7y Disambiguation Imperative.\u201D?</i>\r\n\r\nMake
    sure the pairs listed look different enough to tell them apart clearly."
  created: '2012-05-07 23:06:25'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Who has decreed such a thing? And made it, Imperative?
  created: '2012-05-07 23:40:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: It has just become the new Prime Directive. Read a bit further upthread.
  created: '2012-05-08 12:28:25'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick [S], despite your caveats and comparisons I think the images are telling
    and the research enlightening. The synthesizing of the images is quantitatively
    controlled. It would be like controlling the randomization in Beowulf with evidence-based
    pooling algorithms, and extending this to stroke location and combination.\r\n\r\nThe
    danger of [metaphysical and empirical] homunuculism is always there in theories
    of representation. This fed the representationalist / anti-representationalist
    debate in cognitive science sparked by Hubert Dreyfus\u2019s and Tim Van Gelder
    in the early years of AI. I'm not sure of the current status of the debate, but
    accusing Freeman et. al., of homununculism is as misleading as you think the simulations
    might be. \r\n\r\nHere's the cover of a 1999 book on the debate.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/41PNLSn7uTL_4520._SS500_.jpg]"
  created: '2012-05-08 15:46:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026accusing Freeman et. al., of homununculism is as misleading as
    you think the simulations might be\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nHomunculism isn\u2019t a
    danger that might happen, it\u2019s an inescapable paradox of optical science
    that shows images which map the \uFB01eld of vision.\r\n\r\nI criticized Freeman
    et al.\u2019s images from the perspective of an artist/designer, for being too
    naturalistic.\r\nIt seems to me that the graphic process/metaphor they have designed/chosen
    (\u201Cfeathered\u201D \uFB01ltering), which processes a high-res typographic
    image, could be improved upon.\r\n\r\nTheir overall premise starts with Lettvin\u2019s
    remarkable insight that emergent images <em>acquire</em> the quality of form,
    in which case generating parafoveal representations by distressing <em>already</em>
    fully realized Garamond is wrong.\r\n\r\nIn dealing with type, researchers have
    an advantage over photographs of natural scenes, because the semantics of typographic
    imagery are pre-formatted in a manner familiar to test subjects.\r\n\r\nThat is
    why I\u2019m proposing that, rather than the blurry, rainy-window effect, it might
    be useful to represent peripheral type by something like Arbitrary Sans which
    looks or is partly or emergently formed, rather than post-facto distressed. \r\n\r\nI
    get the feeling that there is something fractal happening, in the relationship
    between categoric shapes as they are perceived in the centre of vision, and the
    periphery. The design question is, how could parametric typefaces best be used
    to represent the visual process? (And make no mistake, this research is also graphic
    design.)\r\n\r\nWhat are the alternatives to Photoshopping bitmapped Garamond,
    or simple Beowolf-style data-driven disruption of form? "
  created: '2012-05-08 17:15:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>it might be useful to represent peripheral type by something
    like Arbitrary Sans</blockquote>\r\n\r\n?\r\nHow could a piece of consciously
    designed personal expression fill in for what actually happens? It's like saying
    a Picasso shows how humans actually look.\r\n\r\nI think you're underestimating
    the functional relevance of this new breed of rendering.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-08 18:29:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The name Arbitrary Sans is a clue, suggesting that the letter forms are not
    fully resolved, which is indeed the case.\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/arbitrary_5605.png]\r\nIn
    the /a for instance, the lower right terminal is decisively rendered, but it appears
    to be neither quite big enough for a typical curled serif in that position, nor
    is it the subtle splaying of the vertical stem that is another standard treatment.
    It is deliberately indecisive with regard to the reader\u2019s expectation. Protean,
    even.\r\n\r\nThis form therefore corresponds to Lettvin\u2019s \u201CI don\u2019t
    exactly know but I\u2019m beginning to get an idea\u201D process of deciphering
    which underlies the research being discussed.\r\n\r\nWith this principle, text
    in different areas of the \uFB01eld of vision could be represented by parametric
    variants of a typeface, quantitatively deployed.\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-08 21:29:31'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Where's that a from, Nick?
  created: '2012-05-08 21:30:29'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: <blockquote>The name Arbitrary Sans is a clue</blockquote>
  created: '2012-05-08 22:31:11'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Thank you, Riccardo
  created: '2012-05-09 01:50:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The first part of the name is a clue as well...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-09 02:05:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I took debate and got hooked ;-)
  created: '2012-05-09 03:19:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Nick, an emergent characteristic of 1) retinal coarse-sampling (in the parafovea)
    of sharply rendered, but closely spaced stimuli, and 2) ventral-stream compulsory
    averaging of the result of c0arse-sampling is positional uncertainty. How could
    this be represented by parametric variants of a typeface, quantitatively deployed?
  created: '2012-05-09 03:43:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: That would be the design brief.
  created: '2012-05-09 04:21:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "As an adjunct to this thread, see:\r\nhttp://denispelli.com/2012/05/05/the-brodmann-areas-a-new-ballet/\r\nRead
    the entire blog post, but take special note of the instructions in the quotation
    from the <em>New Criterion<em>. Then view the video.\r\n\r\nSpectacular!"
  created: '2012-06-12 17:57:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[John] \u201COn the subject of perception in the periphery, I have a quite
    good photo of Denis Pelli's final slide from last week's Reading Digital conference,
    which I will post here once I have confirmed some details of what is shown. It
    involves a technique developed by one of Denis' grad students to ameliorate the
    effects of crowding.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe student\u2019s name is Sarah Rosen. A ppt
    presentation of the work on the technique is here:\r\nhttp://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&source=web&cd=6&ved=0CF8QFjAF&url=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.f1000.com%2Fposters%2Fdocs%2F249558103&ei=alPoT9eDKPCw0QHKjpniCQ&usg=AFQjCNG1XxCP0sfNq9TFzjcCcs8gJq3YWQ\r\nView
    it normally to see the notes. Viewing it as a slideshow adds extra functionality
    but removes the notes, so the thread of the argument gets lost. This should provide
    details on what is shown in your slide."
  created: '2012-06-25 13:18:58'
date: '2012-05-05 02:55:45'
title: Metamers of Moby Dick

---
