---
author:
  name: inkexit
body: "With all the happenings around here involving the ripping off of other peoples
  work and questions about where that line may or may not be drawn; I thought it made
  sense to simply ask the house.  What are the best practices for purposefully recreating
  a font from the past?\r\n\r\nHopefully the answer would involve the definition of
  past being anywhere from 5,000 years to 5 months. It should take the issue of Public
  domain into account, as well as gaining permission from anyone who requires it,
  and what one can possibly do if they are refused such permission.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To avoid being boring I'll start with a \"fringe\" opinion of mine on this
    topic: I don't think the person being dead automatically makes it OK; there's
    something inherently stinky about making <em>any</em> revival.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-01 21:07:50'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Legally, in Europe: 70 years after original author\u2019s dead."
  created: '2012-06-01 21:15:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But that's copyright, and you can't copyright a font design in the US anyway.\r\n\r\nBTW
    Riccardo, can't a person have a heir/estate that inherits the protection?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-01 21:41:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If everybody looked the same, we\u2019d get tired of looking at each other."
  created: '2012-06-01 21:51:18'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I believe the date is 1923 in the U.S. currently. However the Walt Disney
    company keeps fighting to push that back to protect Mickey.\r\n\r\nI also do not
    believe that revivals are stinky, though I respect that point of view.  The thing
    is, despite how some may feel, revivals make up so much of what type design is
    and had been about.  Looked at from the long view, it is like a Symphony; one
    fugue or counterpart after another. Everything plays off of everything else.  Though
    some would hate me for saying it, I really think the idea of copying is kind of
    built-in to type design.  Erik Speikerman once said fleetingly, as he says everything,
    that 95% of all fonts have to be the same, or else they would be illegible."
  created: '2012-06-01 21:51:30'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I'm especially interested to hear what Nick has to say on the subject, since
    I love his Figgans Sans Extra Bold to death.  Does Hrant think Figgans Sans Extra
    Bold is 'stink'?  He would be incorrect if he did, IMO.  But then again, I'm a
    Nick Shinn groupie, so...
  created: '2012-06-01 21:55:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>can't a person have a heir/estate that inherits the protection?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGiven
    my minimal knowledge, I\u2019d say no. \r\nBut, as you say, this applies just
    to copyright, not trademarks or anything else.\r\nThen there\u2019s the specific
    copyright tied to the means of reproduction (the photo of a painting, for example).\r\nAnd
    I don\u2019t know how it works when copyright is granted to a corporation\u2026"
  created: '2012-06-01 22:23:45'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "In the world of art there are several prominent estates which have inherited
    copyrights ...Basquiat to name but one.\r\n\r\nFrom the interwebs:\r\n\r\nQuestion:
    Can You Transfer Copyright Ownership?\r\nAnswer: Yes. Like any other property,
    any or all of the copyright owner's exclusive rights may be transferred. However,
    the transfer of exclusive rights is not valid unless that transfer is in writing
    and signed by the owner or the owner's lawyer or authorized agent. Transfer of
    rights on a nonexclusive basis does not require a written agreement.\r\n\r\nA
    copyright can also be bequeathed by will.\r\n\r\nA copyright is a personal property
    right, and is subject to the same state laws and regulations that govern the ownership,
    inheritance, or transfer of personal property as well as legal contracts or terms
    business. Check your relevant state laws and/or consult an attorney.\r\n\r\nMost
    often transfers of copyright are made by contract. The Copyright Office does provide
    any forms for transfer contracts, you have to provide your own. However, you can
    make a record the transfer of copyright ownership in the Copyright Office.\r\n\r\nhttp://inventors.about.com/od/copyrights101basicsfaq/f/copyright_trans.htm\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-06-01 22:53:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ryan, I certainly agree that revivals are a normal part of something like
    type design, and I don't think all of them are stinky. But I'm with people like
    Unger in thinking it's not what we should ideally be doing. Now Nick, he's one
    of our most inventive type designers, so I have to think there are economic reasons
    for somebody like him electing to make a revival - and that's totally OK. I just
    hope I can avoid that pressure myself, at least in terms of self-initiated retail
    stuff; when I'm commissioned to make a revival I'm quite unlikely to say \"No,
    I don't want your money.\"  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW there are in fact old fonts I'd love
    to see revived (or revived better). But I just don't see myself doing them (unless
    it's something exceptional). There's not even enough time in life to make all
    the original contributions one would like - why waste time reviving?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-01 23:05:41'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: The 'bigger universe' theory is valid. So also, is the 'better universe' theory.
  created: '2012-06-01 23:12:11'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Also... Garamond... Hello??? What are there like several thousand Garamond's
    in existence now?
  created: '2012-06-01 23:25:44'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I guess everyone and their dog think that making their own Garamond is a maturity
    step.
  created: '2012-06-01 23:51:32'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: You haven't seen my cat's Garamond. What a waste of time.
  created: '2012-06-02 00:40:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ryan, you're missing the point of Erik's comment that 95% of fonts have to
    be the same in order to be legible, i.e. that the conventional structures of letters
    in a limited range of styles constitutes the fundamental common architecture.
    It is the 5% that makes any individual typeface desirable over another and hence
    constitutes something close to 100% of the value of a font. The value that derives
    from simply being able to set a text in a font and read it is minimal, i.e, the
    value that derives from the 95% that the font has in common with other fonts is
    minimal precisely because any other font supporting the same language set could
    perform this basic task as well. But that's not typography. As soon as you make
    a choice to use a particular font instead of another on the basis of its design,
    you are locating all of the value of that font in that design, in the 5% that
    \ makes it different from the other options.\r\n\r\n[I've used the percentage
    you cited Erik as using, but in fact I'd argue that because the conventional structures
    vary across even common styles the percentage a given font has in common with
    <em>all</em> other fonts is actually quite a bit lower than 95%.]"
  created: '2012-06-02 01:05:45'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: .
  created: '2012-06-02 05:12:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I\u2019ve done designs in some of the old genres, and, as Hrant suggests,
    there were economic reasons for that\u2014they were commissions for newspapers,
    a conservative medium by and large (I have also had newspaper commissions for
    original types). However, I wouldn\u2019t say those were revivals per se, as I
    wasn\u2019t reinterpreting a speci\uFB01c font, but rather drawing in\uFB02uences
    from a genre as a whole. \r\n\r\nWhen I did the Modern Suite revivals (Scotch
    Modern and Figgins Sans), it was because I had been highly critical of revivals\u2014on
    Typophile\u2014so I thought I should give it a try, to see what it involved, what
    the process was like. I don\u2019t intend to do any more revivals.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-06-02 05:28:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I guess everyone and their dog think that making their own Garamond is
    a maturity step.\"\r\n\r\nIf every person (ever) interested in type design was
    confined by this seemingly narrow group view, none of you would be here. (Not
    an entirely pleasant thought, but true nonetheless). \r\n"
  created: '2012-06-02 12:34:42'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Touchy, touchy, Dobby\u2026\r\n\r\nHuh? You <em>are</em> making your own
    Garamond as a maturity step? Really? Who\u2019d\u2019a believed it? Thought you\u2019d
    passed that and the Helvetica step (and the mooning-the-computer step) yonks ago."
  created: '2012-06-02 13:45:59'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Perhaps someone would like to detail how they would like someone to go about
    reviving one of their fonts.  Like it or not, this really is a fairly big part
    of the world of type design, IMO, and if someone sets out to do such a thing,
    there should be a clear guide set out for them.\r\n\r\nThe designer should explicitly
    state that it is a revival, either in the specimen, or by using the common means
    of naming the font after the original.\r\n\r\nThe area of copyright in the US
    as far as type design seems a bit hazy to say the least, but one would assume
    that a designer would have to gain permission from the creator if they are still
    alive, though perhaps not if they sold off the rights.\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-02 14:32:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think what makes doing a revival much more OK than good ol' plagiarism
    is that the design -not the designer- is dead (or better put: dormant). You can't
    \"revive\" a font that's still in use. That's like knocking somebody over and
    doing CPR on him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-02 14:40:21'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> You can't \"revive\" a font that's still in use. That's like knocking
    somebody over and doing CPR on him. </cite>\r\n\r\nWait... So how exactly <em>are</em>
    people supposed to learn CPR?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2012-06-02 15:00:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You take a course, using dummies. Then you find yourself in the right place
    at the right time. But remember, if you revive a font and it goes on to commit
    a typographic crime, you're responsible for that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-02 15:08:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "CPR for Dummies comes to mind. \r\n\r\nBut seriously, I think a lot of groundbreaking
    revivals of families, Garamond, e.g. have launched individual styles into huge
    and useful classes of fonts, and the designers (and their dogs), who did those
    revivals, are some of the most notable names of the past two centuries. \r\n\r\nDefending
    those living and dead heroes seems worth mentioning, that's all."
  created: '2012-06-02 23:15:50'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: And there also is the updating technologies issue.
  created: '2012-06-02 23:25:39'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Revivalism is an ancient and estimable art. The revivalist, shaman-like,
    conjures up the spirits of the past. Roots matter.\r\n\r\nWhich means: mine the
    past which is beyond the general type-buying public\u2019s memory, which\u2014I\u2019m
    guessing\u2014is median age 30 or so. Even pre-grandpa-box, pre-internet, pre-everything-on-demand
    folks had some good ideas about making type talk in a particular way\u2026"
  created: '2012-06-03 20:25:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>pre-grandpa-box, pre-internet, pre-everything-on-demand folks
    had some good ideas about making type talk</blockquote>\r\nAs Frederic Goudy once
    said: \u201CThe old fellows stole all of our best ideas!\u201D :-)"
  created: '2012-06-03 20:33:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026and the designers (and their dogs), who did those revivals, are
    some of the most notable names of the past two centuries.</em>\r\n\r\nThey may
    have been designers, but they were not the designers of those revivals, and in
    most cases their reputation rests on their original work. \r\n\r\nReally David,
    what\u2019s heroic about copying someone else\u2019s design?\r\n\r\nPerhaps, in
    the early 20th century, it was brave and radical to revive hundreds-of-years-old
    typefaces, but once that rampart had been breached\u2026 \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-03 23:02:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "If you're asking the question, then you likely know the answer. It's not
    a specific legal or scientific answer--but you since are concerned about the issue--then
    you will know when you cross the line. There'll be this twinge in your gut. \r\n\r\nIf
    you're looking for the legal answer, the 'safe age' is inversely proportional
    to the size of the legal staff of the copyright holder. "
  created: '2012-06-04 03:46:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Really David, what\u2019s heroic about copying someone else\u2019s design?\"\r\n\r\n\"Copy\"
    is not a word that engenders discussion on this topic.\r\n\r\nSo long."
  created: '2012-06-04 10:57:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Of course, if your Foonly 2000 4\xD74 typesetter doesn't have a Garamond
    and you <em>must</em> have it, there is no choice but to \u2018port\u2019 one
    over, na?"
  created: '2012-06-04 12:22:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\"Copy\" is not a word that engenders discussion on this topic.</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    then, if taking someone else\u2019s design, and acknowledging that person as the
    author, and giving the revival the same name as the original (or its author) is
    not copying their design, what is it? (Other than the euphemistic \u201Crevival\u201D.)
    Perhaps following, but not revised or adapting, because the design remains the
    same.\r\n\r\nThe revivalist\u2019s execution might well be styled or nuanced in
    a distinctive manner, perhaps even with new ideas about the relationship between
    structure and detail, but the underlying design remains the same. Surely this
    is how the term \u201Cdesign\u201D is understood in most of the plastic arts,
    as the plan or template which exists prior to the making of the artefact.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    not that I don\u2019t recognize the skill and creativity that can go into a redesign,
    but I don\u2019t believe it is of as high an order as that which goes into original
    design, or that it should be f\xEAted to the same degree, certainly not as heroic.\r\n\r\nTo
    do so is a disservice to type design, and makes it seem bush league in relation
    to other arts.\r\n\r\nYou\u2019ve done a lot of revivals David, but for me you
    will always be \uFB01rst and foremost the designer of Throhand, in particular
    I recall how impressive it looked when I \uFB01rst saw it in <em>National Geographic</em>.\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-04 19:47:15'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "I have a full list of revivals I would love to see!\r\nFor example: A new
    version of what we know today as \"Croissant\". \r\nThe pre-digital design exudes
    luxury and charm, while the digital versions of today are almost a caricature.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/croissant_6260.png]\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-05 14:08:09'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Well then, if taking someone else\u2019s design, and acknowledging that
    person as the author, and giving the revival the same name as the original (or
    its author) is not copying their design, what is it?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's pretty much
    like providing a new arrangement for an old song: the bare bones are there, but
    the arranger interprets what there according to his or her own tastes. It\u2019s
    how an old loping pseudo-cowboy song from the 1940s called \u201CCow Cow Boogie\u201D
    (\u201CGet along: get hip, little dogie\u201D) gets reinterpreted by Tiny Bradshaw
    in 1950 as \u201CTrain Kept a-Rolling,\u201D which in turn gets reinterpreted
    by Johnny Burnette and the Rockets in 1956 under the same name, then gets reinterpreted
    again by the Yardbirds\u2014and, later, Aerosmith\u2014in the 1960s as a steamrolling,
    pile-driving, balls-out rock anthem.\r\n\r\nIn all cases, the basic structure
    is precisely the same, but each arranger crafts a different vision from what went
    before. In all cases, it ain\u2019t copying\u2026"
  created: '2012-06-05 16:10:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But surely if the basic structure is precisely the same, it is copied.\r\nIn
    a typeface, isn\u2019t the basic structure its design?\r\n\r\nThe idea that musicians
    may change the lyrics to a tune and call the song their own is frowned upon, as
    George Harrison, amongst others, found out.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of the 1940s, John
    Jacob Niles wrote a book <em>My Precarious Life in the Public Domain</em>, in
    which he observed that many people had used his folk-style compositions, assuming
    they were in the public domain. One of those was \u201CBlack is the color of my
    true love\u2019s hair\u201D; he kept the traditional words but wrote a new tune.
    Luciano Berio incoporated it into his <em>Folk Songs</em>. Berio called that process
    transcription\u2014adapting exisiting works was an issue central to his. \r\n\r\nI
    would also note that in music, as you say, the revival is termed an arrangement,
    not a composition, whereas no such distinction exists in type design. Comparing
    type with music can only go so far, these things are complex enough in themselves.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI
    can see the merit in David\u2019s reluctance to discuss this further.\r\nIts utility,
    and the persistence of tradition, are things we all love about type.\r\nIdeally,
    if anybody thinks type design is small beer, only 5% creative, that\u2019s their
    problem.\r\nI will adopt this approach in future, and let the type do the talking.\r\nNoblesse
    oblige."
  created: '2012-06-05 17:03:54'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Comparing type with music can only go so far, these things are complex
    enough in themselves.</em>\r\n\r\nAs you wish: I am still reasonably confident
    that my metaphor works if the roots are acknowledged.\r\n\r\nThe chord progressions\u2014and,
    to some extent, the melodies\u2014of \u201CHe\u2019s So Fine\u201D and \u201CMy
    Sweet Lord\u201D are essentially identical; whether or not George Harrison recognized
    this fact consciously must remain unsettled, but he was too large a target for
    the lawyers not to pursue. In the string of songs I mentioned, the chord progression
    and the hook remain the same, but the first two are quite dissimilar from the
    rest.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-05 17:17:44'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> he was too large a target for the lawyers not to pursue\r\n\r\nSame thing
    happens in many other fields. For example any time a movie is a big hit, someone
    will inevitably sue and claim the original story was written by them and was ripped
    off by the scriptwriters. Sometimes these lawsuits have merit, sometimes not. "
  created: '2012-06-05 17:31:49'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "@Pablo - I agree that a decent version of the \"Charles of the Ritz\" would
    be nice, and certainly agree that the very klutzy Croissant isn't it. However,
    I doubt that there ever were any more characters created than those used in \"Charles
    of the Ritz\". As far as I know, that was hand lettered and had many different
    variations.\r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2012-06-06 03:33:39'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "A few more here:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/more_3594.jpg]\r\n\r\nCroissant
    is just one example. There are tons of stuff like this.\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-06 05:19:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Matthew Carter has said that to him revivals are like a new performance of
    an old score. The conductor, adding a new interpretation, creates a recording
    that has value in itself, beyond the original score. To take one of my favorites,
    Ella Fitzgerald's recording of Gershwin's songs added a lot. In fact, Ira Gershwin
    I believe said, \"I never knew how good we were until I heard Ella sing our songs.\"\r\n\r\nElla
    isn't Gershwin, and Leonard Bernstein isn't Beethoven, but their performances
    are of value in themselves. \r\n\r\nA straight copy that attempts just to be accurate
    is more craft than art, but it is valuable in my view, if what is revived is of
    value. Because of the changes in technology, I think the effort to be \"authentic\"
    is a trap, though, especially for very old types.\r\n\r\nI explained my views
    and my own process reviving Caslon's Pica 2, [[http://ilovetypography.com/2010/07/26/reviving-caslon-the-snare-of-authenticity/|over
    at ilovetypography]].    "
  created: '2012-06-06 14:58:03'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Charles of the Ritz is beautiful to me, Croissant not so. I cannot resist
    the music analogy. <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2qt2d-k2_o&feature=related\"
    target=\"_blank\">Here</a> is a rendition of J. S. Bach's chorale No. 53 (<em>St
    Matthew's Passion</em>). <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vBqCpd31JPA\"
    target=\"_blank\">Here</a> is Simon & Garfunkel in Central Park (<em>American
    Tune</em>).\r\nCopying or borrowing, beautifully done, is not offensive, on the
    contrary. Bach in turn borrowed the tune from Hans Leo Hassler's <em>Mein G'm\xFCt
    ist mir verwirret</em> (1601?). They are all independently precious. So with type.
    Stempel Garamond is not the same as ITC Garamond, or Garamond 3, or Simoncini
    Garamond. I do not mind that they all exist, they are all valuable."
  created: '2012-06-06 16:48:32'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "And very occasionally, the rework can add a new dimension.\r\n\r\nIn the
    1990s or so, this 32-note ditty, composed by (the late) J\xF3n M\xFAli \xC1rnason,
    was used by RUV for the \"Deaths and Funerals\" announces. Later on, Sigur R\xF3s
    got to rework it for the movie Englar alheimsins (Angels of the Universe).\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZivyeW3drU]]"
  created: '2012-06-06 18:51:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I would be interested to see if your opinions change after you try
    your hand at designing something original.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-06 21:08:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "After I've finished, I'll let you know. I value originality, but other things
    are also valuable to users\u2014often more valuable. "
  created: '2012-06-06 21:29:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Providing value to users is one thing, providing value to culture is another.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, I don't think \"copying\" is the right way to think of revivals (except
    highly literal ones).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-06 21:34:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hrant, I agree with you. In many revivals, there is a lot of creative effort
    that goes in, as Carter''s analogy indicates. '
  created: '2012-06-06 23:18:16'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Not as big an another as you seem to imply, @hrant. Culture is the end result
    of centuries of see-and-be-seen one-upmanship. And, no, I do not venerate the
    deities Bheer and Nhascar.
  created: '2012-06-07 01:00:41'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: I worship Bheer at noon, at sunset I pray to Hwine. To be honest, would I
    want to do another Garamond or another anything? No. It's a personal choice.
  created: '2012-06-07 01:07:53'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "So, here's real life example. I want to create a font based on this Harrild
    & Sons woodcut:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gardensSample_4418.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    specimen is from before 1923, so I believe that means copyright has expired for
    it.  I really like this and am seriously planning on recreating a full font from
    it.  My biggest fear is of course after I put in all the work, and start selling
    it, that someone who still claims ownership of the original wood cuts would take
    me to court. What steps should I take to revive this font ethically and legally?
    \ I don't think Harrild & Sons exist anymore.  Should I start contacting everyone
    with the last name of Harrild in the world?  Seriously, I want to go about this
    in the right way, and would appreciate help on the matter."
  created: '2012-06-15 12:47:39'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Your sample is well over a hundred years old; even if the design were patented\u2014which
    was a common process in the nineteenth century, beginning with <a href=\"http://www.google.com/patents?vid=D1\"
    target=\"_blank\">George Bruce</a> in 1843\u2014the patent has long since expired.
    Go fit it\u2026"
  created: '2012-06-15 16:09:47'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "In the United States, alphabetic designs cannot be copyrighted but can be
    patented. Digital implementations may have a copyright, and typeface/font names
    may be trademarked.\r\nCode of Federal Regulations, Ch 37, Sec. 202.1(e); Eltra
    Corp. vs. Ringer\r\n{I am not an attorney: Citation is from Wickipedia} \r\n\r\nWhat
    some in this thread have complained about are re-creations of existing digitized
    typefaces. Unless it's already been done, which is possible, this specimen does
    not fit into that category.\r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2012-06-15 16:23:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This concept, which I would call hermaphrodite (no doubt a better term exists),
    of treating the upper and lower halves of a typeface (necessarily all caps) differently,
    seems to have originated in the 1840s. Figgins showed several styles that have
    this feature, including the bizarre Zig-Zag, which I would put on a par with Italian
    Old Style. From Gray:\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/ZigZag_4841.jpg]\r\nSure,
    it would be a challenge to recreate the whole face from the Harrild specimen,
    but why not try your hand at an original \u201Chermaphrodite\u201D design, informed
    by more recent, even contemporary, components?\r\n\r\nAlternative term: chimeric.\r\nhttp://brittahope.com/62471/541752/gallery/chimera"
  children:
  - author:
      name: inkexit
    body: "Hermaphrodite... \r\n\r\nWell I dont see why we need bring sex or gender
      into this, but I do like the idea of a proto-font which we have designed ourselves,
      and then taking that protofont and putting it through all types of arbitrary
      and easily defined mutations."
    created: '2012-06-15 23:52:36'
  created: '2012-06-15 19:52:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry for the sex type thing\u2014I didn\u2019t intend to be sexist, as is
    often the case with the way people categorize type. Chimeric is better.\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-16 02:18:06'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Hey! Finally a decent revival of Croissant! \r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/hwt/hwt-bon-air/\r\n\r\nCongrats
    to the P22 foundry and the Hamilton Wood Type & Printing Museum "
  created: '2013-03-08 11:28:10'
date: '2012-06-01 20:50:41'
node_type: forum
title: Creating and Selling a Revival Font, Ethically and Legally

---
