---
author:
  name: CDesign
  picture: 124924
body: "Hello everyone, Just joined this wonderful site because I really am becoming
  a Typophile... \r\nLiterally spent mostly every waking moment this weekend downloading,
  buying, trying, discovering, making, testing, and learning about font. I am starting
  to dream in type! Gotta space out my passions.. Losing time for Graphic Design,
  and Web Design.. \r\n\r\nBut anyway, I am curious. Is it just me? or does Typophile
  only use Helvetica as its Typeface? \r\n\r\nI know Helvetica is an amazing font,
  and perfect for easy reading and easy on the eyes, but you would think there would
  be more implementation of other typefaces in a sleek show of how typography can
  make any design amazing. \r\n\r\neh, I guess thats enough of my discussion for now.
  I could go on about much more, but its totally unrelated to the topic at hand, so
  I will save those thoughts for another time. \r\n\r\nTake care everyone. Glad I
  could have become part of this wonderful site. \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Check your browser settings.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/georgia_4889.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: CDesign
      picture: 124924
    body: "Well i did of coarse. Its set to let websites render their own fonts, and
      not use system defaults. Plus I am on my Fedora Linux Computer right now, so
      I dont even have Helvetica installed on this system. \r\n\r\nI was asking others
      if Helvetica is the font that is used on 99% of this site? or if Its just my
      browser set up that only sees helvetica. \r\n\r\nSo do you see other fonts on
      this site other than helvetica? besides the images, and logos of coarse. "
    created: '2012-06-04 09:24:49'
  created: '2012-06-04 09:08:16'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "As the image I attached shows, it\u2019s almost entirely Georgia (with some
    minor detail in Lucida Grande and Helvetica).\r\nBut, since the CSS declaration
    is somewhat schizophrenic (\u201CGeorgia, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;\u201D),
    if someone doesn\u2019t have Georgia on its system, they will see a sans serif
    instead."
  created: '2012-06-04 09:37:37'
- author:
    name: CDesign
    picture: 124924
  body: "aha, okay. I gotcha now. didnt even realize that image you uploaded. Just
    thought it was some random output of my first post, as if that is how this forum
    works.. lol. First post, so I just assumed. \r\n\r\nI definitely appreciate the
    Helvetica WAY more than the Georgia though.. Thats cool though.\r\n\r\nBut even
    then, that still follows my main point.. How come the biggest Typographic Forum
    on the Net is using such basic font styles? \r\nCould always use @font-face, and
    make it beautiful. It works in all modern browsers if using the multiple font
    formats, and soon .woff will be the standard format for all browsers in not too
    long. \r\nbut there is always Cufon, Google Web Fonts, sRIF, tons of Image embedding,
    tons of other Jquery/JS libraries and tools for embedding actual fonts no matter
    what is on the default system. AND even better yet, all the AWESOME typography
    Jquery/JS framework/CSS3 effects, to optimize even more on already awesome embedded
    fonts. Like iKern.js, Lettering.js, kerning.js, fittext.js, fontdetect.js, slabtext.js,
    typeface.js, textualizer.js, and on and on and on! ;)\r\n\r\nI was just curious
    if there was a reason for Typophile to be using the old skool basic CSS1/2 font-family
    rule, and nothing more. \r\n\r\nMaybe because Typophile doesnt want to \"pick
    favorites\" with designers? or maybe simply for simple rendering to focus on content
    more than image, as image being over-rated? or something along those lines.. ?
    \r\n\r\nJust wanted feedback on peoples thoughts here. Anyone else think they
    should customize and beautify? or do you guys think it should stay the same? \r\n\r\nDont
    get me wrong, lol, I am in NO way trying to suggest this idea or anything, its
    just something that sprung up in my mind as soon as I joined. Ive been checking
    out other sites fonts all day, so as soon as I saw typophile is still system default
    style, I was curious as to why? \r\nBut like I said I am definitely not trying
    to suggest this idea, not like I just joined and trying to get this forum to change
    because I suggested it... ha, trust me I dont mean it that way.. So dont get me
    wrong fellas. \r\n\r\n\r\nShare your thoughts folks. \r\n\r\nPS: gonna change
    my thread title from \"Is Typophile only using Helvetica\" to \"Why is Typophile
    still using the basic Font-Family CSS rule\" (unless I can think of better I guess..)\r\n\r\nPeace
    and Love "
  created: '2012-06-04 10:03:06'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>How come the biggest Typographic Forum on the Net is using such basic
    font styles?</em>\r\n\r\nA rats nest, but the (sad) truth is web fonts are here
    because of popular demand from customers.  Sad, because we are proud of the high
    standards of our print/desktop fonts and couldn\u2019t care less about the standard
    of our web fonts. Same thing happened with desktop publishing: type went digital
    by the path of least resistance. It\u2019s not a conspiracy, but I\u2019ll glady
    applaud those who dare to go the extra mile. \r\n\r\nFor now, text <em>all</em>
    user are supposed to <em>read</em>, even if they use older Windows machines, needs
    more attention than the type industry cares (or affords) to give it. Georgia is
    still miles ahead."
  created: '2012-06-04 11:17:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Fedora? Then this may be a relatively easy way to get \xF0e aulde core fontes
    onto the box: [[http://corefonts.sourceforge.net/]]"
  created: '2012-06-04 12:38:40'
- author:
    name: ahyangyi
    picture: 120032
  body: Actually, Typophile used to feature a @font-face for the heading. And it changes
    from time to time. I think they were called "featured" fonts?
  created: '2012-06-04 12:41:23'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>How come the biggest Typographic Forum on the Net is using such
    basic font styles?</blockquote>\r\nWhat Frode said.\r\nA better question would
    be: \u201Cwhy Typophile can\u2019t care enough to have at least some decent CSS
    typography rules?\u201D\r\n<blockquote>Typophile used to feature a @font-face
    for the heading.</blockquote>\r\nNot exactly. It was a buggy Flash-based solution."
  created: '2012-06-04 13:21:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Some of the stuff discussed on Typophile involves specialities not supported
    by a standard Latin 1 font, so that is perhaps also part of the consideration
    \u2014 that, and loading times. \r\n\r\nIn any case, a \u201Cfeatured text face\u201D
    would be A W E S O M E. On the web, it\u2019s easy enough to specify a fallback
    font to take care of non-supported languages etc. "
  created: '2012-06-04 13:41:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>a \u201Cfeatured text face\u201D would be A W E S O M E.</blockquote>\r\nI
    wholeheartedly agree.\r\n<blockquote>On the web, it\u2019s easy enough to specify
    a fallback font</blockquote>\r\nLike \"Helvetica, sans-serif\" as fallback for
    Georgia? ;-) "
  created: '2012-06-04 13:49:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Welcome.\r\n\r\nJust gotta say this though, for the record: I myself have
    little respect for Helvetica, and many others (like Erik Spiekermann) don't exactly
    love it either. In contrast, Georgia rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-04 14:03:20'
- author:
    name: CDesign
    picture: 124924
  body: "@T\xE9 Rowan \r\ncool, Thanks for showing me that. That's a pretty cool way.
    Maybe there is something there that I dont already have in my collection. \r\nBut
    what I did that was even easier for me personally, I Triple Boot Windows 7, Fedora
    16, and my pride and Joy, Red Hat Enterprise Linux. For various reasons of coarse.
    \ Now I have a 32bg USB flash drive that basically holds ALL my work, my designs,
    my Photoshop files, FontLab files, Fonts, Web Designs, templates, Javascript frameworks,
    stock images, vectors, brushes, etc. Literally everything I could need in the
    designing world. And I always am expanding it daily. \r\nSo I just went into my
    Windows Directory from Linux, and went to the font folder and copied all the font
    files onto my USB drive. Giving me the ability to install any of my windows 7
    fonts on any of my linux boxes, at will. That being said, I only really installed
    a couple. because personally I like Linux's fonts much better. The anti-aliasing
    is so much better, a really nice selection of Sans, slabs, and surprisingly for
    my taste, a couple serifs. \r\nI didn't install all of them, because I really
    dont need them all. my Windows partition is 350gb, my Fedora partition is a mere
    10gb. And I do EVERYTHING on fedora, so I can get away with that small space.
    So I just prefer not to clog it all up with semi-decent win fonts.\r\n\r\nPlus
    I am a big open source contributor, supporter, and believer. So I really like
    open fonts, mainly SIL's Open Font Licensing. Like FontSquirrel.com for example.
    Wonderful collection of all FREE for Commercial use fonts. \r\n\r\n@frode frank,
    & hrant\r\nYeah Georgia is pretty nice, but Idk, I think Helvetica has to be one
    of the nicest Serifs for body text. Georgia seems idk... so... playful? Un-serious?
    something along those lines? Like something that would be used for \"guitar-tabs\"
    if it was monospaced.\r\nWhile Helvetica, seems so smooth, to the point, and down
    to business. \r\n\r\nBut Frode frank, \r\nWhat makes you say that Typographic
    designers are proud of only Print/Desktop fonts, and could care less about web
    font standards? \r\nThere are TONS of Type Foundries, and Designers that are all
    about web fonts. \r\nPlus its a rising field, in the industry, so eventually its
    going to be pretty standard right along side Print and Desktop standards. Try
    to think 5-10 years ahead. Even Now 60%+ are on the internet these days, with
    the website domains growing in Epic proportions in a mere 25+ years. \r\nI really
    think web-fonts are going to be a big industry in the type design field. Its nearly
    fully implemented as W3C Web Standards, with a whole new font format \"Web Open
    Font Format (.woff)\" being born from it. Finally web designers can finally show
    a creative typographic side instead of being stuck with a mere 12-15 basic fonts
    to choose from. Now the possibilities will be endless. And who knows, maybe a
    whole new style of type will spawn from it.\r\n\r\nI dont know, maybe when its
    fully implemented using .woff, we will see Typophile's true siding on using web
    fonts. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nOH I guess what may add to my liking of Helvetica, may
    be because of the SUPERIOR font smoothing I get on Linux. The smoothing is SOOO
    Nice.. \r\nI literally cant stand being on my windows system for the harshness
    of the font alone... Not to mention Internet Explorer! Even worse!!! Literally
    no font smoothing occures in it at all.. Its a bit pathetic on microsofts part.
    Apple, and Linux are beyond belief with their font-smoothing/anti-aliasing, and
    microsoft even with their \"cleartype option\" is nearly useless. \r\nSo I guess
    that my atributte to my liking for Helvetica. \r\nSince I checked out Erik Spiekers
    blog seeing the first post saying \"Why Helvetica Sucks!!\" and seeing his image
    of Helvetica rendered at small sizes, and yeah it looks pretty bad, but on linux
    right now, its being rendered at the same pixel size as his image, and it looks
    fantastic. so it must be because of the font smoothing of linux in general.. So
    yeah if I was on windows or reading this in print, I guess I would also side with
    Georgia.."
  created: '2012-06-04 21:29:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's certainly been an increase in quality among free/open fonts, but
    the best ones are still not free - not even cheap; so you could sometimes get
    decent results with free fonts, but you can almost never get great results without
    spending the necessary money. BTW your darling Helvetica (which to me only looks
    acceptable when set very large in the lightest weights) is certainly not free.
    Also, you should know better than to evaluate an outline font mostly by its rendering
    at small sizes onscreen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-04 22:28:53'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>What makes you say that Typographic designers are proud of only Print/Desktop
    fonts, and could care less about web font standards?</em>\r\n\r\nAlmost no-one
    are designing for the medium. And by that I don\u2019t mean hinting exclusively.
    (Remember neither Linux nor Mac OSX use font hints to render type.) Most just
    auto-convert their print stuff, waiting for hi-res displays. I too believe web
    fonts is going to be big \u2014 in fact I think it already is. \r\n\r\n\r\n<em>Yeah
    Georgia is pretty nice, but Idk, I think Helvetica has to be one of the nicest
    Serifs for body text. Georgia seems idk... so... playful? Un-serious? something
    along those lines? Like something that would be used for \"guitar-tabs\" if it
    was monospaced.\r\nWhile Helvetica, seems so smooth, to the point, and down to
    business. </em>\r\n\r\nOne can\u2019t argue with personal taste :) Just make sure
    you steer by more than just taste if you want to be a graphic designer."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: "@ frode frank\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Remember neither Linux nor Mac OSX use
      font hints to render type.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFrom wikipedia:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
      open-source FreeType 2 font rendering engine uses an auto-hinter when such hinting
      data is not present or its use is restricted by a software patent.[2] As of
      2011, the FreeType website states that the relevant font hinting patents have
      now all expired, and TrueType is now enabled in FreeType by default.[2]</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSo
      it seems that FreeType under Linux supports TrueType hinting. Most Linux distributions,
      however, ships with OpenType(CFF) fonts, and enable autohint by default.\r\n\r\nIt
      is also worth noting that the Ubuntu font family, the branding font of Ubuntu
      Linux, is a TTF font, and is hinted manually."
    created: '2012-06-05 03:58:53'
  created: '2012-06-04 22:43:58'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "\"I like Linux's fonts much better. The anti-aliasing is so much better,
    a really nice selection of Sans, slabs, and surprisingly for my taste, a couple
    serifs.\"\r\n\r\nFont rendering, including anti-aliasing, has nothing to do with
    the fonts themselves, but is strictly a function of the operating environment:
    Operating system, font rendering agent, printer drivers, and monitor. I was also
    under the impression that there is nothing unique about fonts that can be used
    in Linux - don't they use the same Truetype fonts available for Windows or MacOSX
    and conversely, can't any font used in Linux be used in Windows?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: CDesign
      picture: 124924
    body: "@ HVB\r\n\r\nOf coarse, but even the windows fonts I install on Linux just
      dont cut it compared to most of the fonts that ship with Linux.  But I mean
      yeah, it goes the same way, The fonts featured in Linux dont look the greatest
      when rendered on Windows either. \r\n\r\nIdk, its just like the Typefaces, that
      were picked out for linux were choosen because they play well with the anti-aliasing.
      \r\n\r\nI understand its not the fonts that win/linux use, themselves. I guess
      I should of explained that differently? Idk its a bit hard to explain it even
      now.. You would have to see for yourself. Using my win fonts on Fedora, still
      look a little sharp and jagged here and there. \r\n\r\nMaybe I should of just
      said \"I like how Linux renders the fonts way better, than I can handle the
      harsh rendering of windows\". \r\n\r\n\r\n& @ hrant, \r\nYour misunderstanding
      what I mean, I am not a fan of Helvetica or anything.. I just think it renders
      better on my screen than georgia. In fact I would probably never choose helvetica
      for a design myself. I was just stating I am happy I got Helvetica by default
      instead of Georgia. \r\n\r\nIts kind of a curious thing though, Considering
      Helvetica isnt free, I wonder why it is shipped with Fedora, a free and open
      distribution.  It wouldn't surprise me though, considering its a Red Hat Project,
      they are top of the paid linux industry, so I dont see why they wouldn't through
      a 29$ font in, I guess.. ? Just strange its kind of against the whole \"Open/Free\"
      Aspect.\r\n\r\nOh and I am on my Windows 7 box now. And Georgia is being rendered
      now. And now Georgia looks gorgeous, and more professional, than helvetica...
      \r\nSo that goes with what I was saying about it earlier... The same exact fonts
      look completely different on different operating systems. And even the first
      image that Riccard0 uploaded in the beginning of this thread shows Georgia looking
      like a completely different font than I am looking at right now.. \r\nGeorgia
      in the image looks very dark black, larger as well, and the serifs are way more
      defined than what I am looking at right now.  My side looks a slight grey, with
      soft edges, and much less defined serifs.. \r\nSo Desktop/Web Fonts are a whole
      other world than print, there are too many variables that effect its rendering
      i guess..?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2012-06-05 06:20:50'
  created: '2012-06-05 01:13:22'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Thanks for the correction, Yi Yang. Is that a direct quote from Wikipedia?
    I couldn\u2019t find it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: "@frode frank\r\n\r\nYes, it's from this article:\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Font_hinting]]\r\n"
    created: '2012-06-05 11:43:31'
  created: '2012-06-05 10:39:22'
- author:
    name: mikemai2awesome
    picture: 124917
  body: "I think fancy display fonts could be considered for the headings, there are
    many alternatives to using @font-face such as Fonts.com Webfonts, Typekit, and
    Google Webfonts. The downside of using @font-face is that you are exposing the
    source font files in the CSS, you might be unintentionally breaking the font licensing
    agreements. So it's much more safe and hassle-free to use a hosted service for
    custom fonts.\r\n\r\nBack to the topic of \"should Typophile use fancier custom
    fonts?\", for the purpose of the forum, I don't see the necessity of doing so.
    Keep in mind, any fonts you use other than the basic web safe fonts are gonna
    require more scripts running which directly affects the performance of the site.
    I understand this is a typography site but it is also a forum, not a showcase.
    While it would be nice to use custom fonts but I don't see it being necessary."
  created: '2012-06-05 16:16:58'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: My own Linux box runs Linux From Scratch 5.1.1 with additions from Beyond
    LFS 5.1 and later Scratch versions. Probably why I've got into the habit of looking
    for sourceballs rather than RPMs or debbies.
  created: '2012-06-05 16:49:40'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'I''m not talking about <em>fancier</em> custom fonts. '
  created: '2012-06-05 17:12:26'
- author:
    name: CDesign
    picture: 124924
  body: "This is a unique thread. Were burning through 4-5 different topics. Its just
    branching and branching. ;D\r\n\r\n@mikemai2awesome \r\nThanks man. Good point!
    Exactly the type of answers I was looking for. \r\nAs for the @font-face exposing
    problem. There are ways to prevent this. You can make the file only accessible
    when rendered server-side. You can always prevent downloading of any file. And
    you could always edit your .htaccess file and prevent that file from ever being
    used except for its exact purpose. Say someone put the font name after the address,
    for example: \"typophile.com/kabel.ttf \"  \"typophile.com/kabel.woff\" etc. You
    could have your .htaccess file automatically redirect that person to a 404 or
    501 error page. \r\nAlso another way I have seen people prevent downloading their
    paid font files is by naming it a random hash that is too long for a browser URL
    search.  Using random numbers, letters, etc. Ive seen sites name their font using
    over 200 characters (may be overkill of coarse) and if you try to tack that name
    on the end of the site address URL, you will get an error saying that the URL
    string is too long. \r\nAnd their is always server-side encrypted gzip-ing. among
    other things of coarse. I am sure their are many. Those are just the simple ones
    I know of. \r\n\r\nBUT, just like Frank mentioned, \"not talking about fancier
    fonts\".\r\nI know I did kind of word it that way latter in the thread, that using
    CSS techniques you could \"spice\" this place up a bit.  I was just curious as
    to why the site is using such basic old school standards, these days. \r\n\r\nAnd
    yeah that makes sense, like you said, It isnt a showcase, its a forum. and yeah
    thats true, that fits with what I said earlier, about \"content being more important
    than image\".\r\n\r\nSo good point sir. \r\n\r\nBy the way, a bit off topic, but
    almost everything is in this thread. \r\nCan anyone tell that my profile picture
    is a Vector image made in illustrator? or does it just look like a picture that
    was distorted by scaling? I guess I should change it, cuz it looks kind of funny.
    It would be cooler if the profile images were near 150x150 or something.  Sorry
    for the OTD, it was bugging me."
  created: '2012-06-05 23:13:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, <em>this</em> was a unique thread:\r\nhttp://www.www.typophile.com/node/32680\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-05 23:44:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Plus I am a big open source contributor, supporter, and believer.
    So I really like open fonts, mainly SIL's Open Font Licensing. Like FontSquirrel.com
    for example. Wonderful collection of all FREE for Commercial use fonts.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/93662#comment-512255\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-06 21:31:02'
date: '2012-06-04 09:03:40'
node_type: forum
title: Why is Typophile still using the basic "Font-Family" CSS rule these days?

---
