---
author:
  name: altsan
  picture: 124930
body: "Hi, new poster here (although I've lurked around the margins for a while)...
  \ If I may, I'd appreciate some opinions on a new serif typeface I'm designing.
  \ \r\n\r\nThis is my first attempt at a serif typeface, and my first serious attempt
  at a font fit for general consumption (my previous work has been for rather specialized
  uses).\r\n\r\nSome remarks about my intentions... I basically set out to explore
  the possibilities of a humanist typeface with non-traditional styling.  (The serifs
  are loosely intended to recall engraved inscriptions, by the way.)  In the future
  I plan on adding at least partial Japanese support, and one of my other objectives
  is to see if it's possible to create a consistent style between the Latin and Japanese
  characters that manages to be culturally faithful to both.  (Most general-purpose
  Japanese fonts are woefully generic-looking, especially the serif/mincho ones.)\r\n\r\nIt's
  primarily intended as a document font that can also function reasonably well on-screen.
  \ The serifs are deliberately understated to help the text render with minimal distraction.\r\n\r\nLetter
  designs:  [[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/letters.png]]\r\nSample
  text at various sizes:  [[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/text_sample.png]]\r\n\r\nI'm
  aware of a number of extant problems.  The strokes need to be darker in general
  (and the harmonization of stroke widths needs work).  I'm also thinking the contrast
  needs to be increased a little.  For printed text, the character spacing may be
  a little tight.  As far as the specific glyphs go, I'm not entirely convinced by
  a few characters, in particular some of the numbers.  I'm also wondering if the
  serifs might not be a bit <em>too</em> understated.\r\n\r\nI'd welcome opinions
  from more experienced hands!  Thanks..."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although I personally don't find this very exciting, I think it can certainly
    evolve into a usable font, and the Japanese angle is certainly interesting.\r\n\r\nThe
    first thing you should do is decide what point size range you're shooting for
    this, because that's what will lead you to a good balance of color versus spacing
    versus vertical proportions (noting for starters that the descenders are way too
    long compared to the ascenders).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-05 14:45:40'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Good point about the descenders... I'd overlooked that but on closer examination
    I have to agree with you.\r\n\r\nThe 10-12 point range is my main target, I suppose.
    \ I plan to do a couple of other weights, though.\r\n\r\nI'm actually a computer
    programmer by background... I stumbled into typeface design pretty much by accident
    \u2013 around ten years ago, I did a hasty mock-up of an old bitmap font to help
    myself create some user interface drawings, and the result somehow got adopted
    as the main menu & dialog font for several software programs.   So I've been trying
    to catch up on learning all I can about proper type design ever since.  \r\n\r\nI've
    grown quite fascinated with the subject now...  a fondness for Japanese writing
    and calligraphy came along separately, but I figure I should find a way to combine
    the interests. :)\r\n\r\nThis is a learning exercise as much as anything else.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the feedback!"
  created: '2012-06-06 11:40:05'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Interesting design. At first glance I think the /M should be a bit wider
    or the vertical oblique less inclined. Same comment for the /W. However the /Z
    seems a bit too wide. I love those glyph: ?@\xDF.  Keep going"
  created: '2012-06-07 14:59:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, I'm also a programmer by training (although I've become quite rusty).
    Wrote my first program at age 9 on a Commodore PET, but in the early 80s made
    bitmap fonts for my C64 (with my brother's help) and even my Computer Science
    degree couldn't stop my eventual move to type design - although there is very
    much some overlap (especially these days). One thing I think computer people are
    good at in type design is spacing - let me know if you feel that too.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're shooting for around 11 point I'd say the color (thickness) needs to be
    bumped up (as you say) but the x-height is good - just shorten the descenders
    (quite a bit though). Also, the caps are on the big side - which means they're
    good at reference texts (where a reader has to search for proper nouns) but not
    so much for immersive reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-08 03:39:08'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "OK, I've reworked things a bit.  The descenders are shorter and I redesigned
    the /S and /s glyphs, as well as the /a to some extent.  The /f, long-s and eszett
    share a slightly flatter curve now.  Most significantly, I've bumped up the stroke
    contrast, especially on the bowls.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/letters_2.png]]\r\n[[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/text_sample_2.png]]\r\n\r\nHmm...
    the current caps height works reasonably well at the smallest point sizes.  You
    do have a point, though, especially at the larger sizes.  \r\n\r\nI'll up the
    colour a bit in the coming days.  I suspect I'll keep something close to the current
    incarnation to develop into a \"light\" weight, though.\r\n\r\nI tweaked the /Z
    a little in this iteration \u2013 specifically, I made the top bar a bit shorter,
    which may help a bit.  The /M and /W I'll take a look at.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2012-06-08 10:41:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>I'll keep something close to the current incarnation to develop
    into a \"light\" weight</blockquote>\r\nMakes good sense.\r\nYou could also use
    it for a \"display\" cut."
  created: '2012-06-08 13:11:31'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "New milestone.  I've reduced the caps size very slightly, and tweaked some
    other characters.\r\n[[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/letters_3.png]]\r\n[[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/text_sample_3.png]]\r\n\r\nThe
    capitals may still look a little large next to the lowercase, but I think part
    of that is due to the overly-compressed letter-spacing.  I need to space things
    out a bit more.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about how well the tail on the /u and /d works.
    \ Anyone have thoughts on that? \r\n\r\nI added the proposed new uppercase Eszett
    character, mainly because I could. :p\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which, I've deliberately
    drawn the foot of the long-s without a serif, in order to differentiate it better
    from /f.  For consistency it was thus left off the regular eszett which is derived
    from it.  Does that seem like a good idea/bad idea/acceptable quirk?\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-10 10:47:27'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "OK, I've given the face a major overhaul.  The overall weight has been increased
    considerably, and spacing has been improved.  I've also kerned about a dozen of
    the more problematic pairs.\r\n\r\nTwo PDFs with sample text are now attached
    (see above).  suzuran.pdf shows all supported characters, and a block of 12 pt
    text.  suzuran_sample.pdf has a shorter paragraph shown at a range of sizes.\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's an image of the updated design (most but not all characters shown here):\r\n[[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/letters_4.png]]\r\n\r\nI
    think this is a significant improvement.  It actually works better than I expected
    down to quite small sizes , at least off a good-quality laser printer. :p  \r\n\r\nI
    think some of the curves may be a bit too heavy now.  I'm also not very happy
    with some of the counter shapes, especially the /s and /b-/d-/p-/q...  but I'll
    keep on tweaking."
  created: '2012-06-14 09:01:22'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I've started adding very gentle curves and even a few subtle irregularities
    to the characters, which I think gives it a more old-style feel.  Here are \"before\"
    and \"after\" images for comparison.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzutitle_5652.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SUZUTITL_6734.PNG]\r\n\r\nI
    think it adds some needed character to the typeface as a whole, although of course
    at small text sizes it's not really consciously noticeable.\r\n\r\nPDF samples
    suzuran_120618.pdf and suzuran_samples_120618.pdf have been added; see above."
  created: '2012-06-18 15:21:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The second one makes this worth releasing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-27 23:21:13'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Thanks.  I do think it's getting steadily better.\r\n\r\nThere are many adjustments
    in the latest release, which can be seen in the attached suzuran_120629.pdf (above)
    or in http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/letters_5.png\r\n\r\nChanges
    of note include reworking the serifs to make them sturdier-looking, adjusting
    the 'e' crossbar, trying to harmonize the bowl weights (still needs some work
    IMO), and smoothing out a lot of the counters (especially in the lowercase).\r\n\r\nI
    don't know, though... there's still something not quite satisfactory about it,
    which I especially notice in paragraphs at 10-12pt.  I think maybe the stroke
    contrast might need to be increased still more.  \r\n\r\nI'm also thinking I should
    change the numbers to text (rather than lining) figures.  I'm not really a big
    fan of old-style figures but in this case I think they fit the style a bit more.
    \ (Since I'm using Typetool I have no way to add OpenType features, so it's pretty
    much one or the other.)"
  created: '2012-06-29 10:46:21'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I decided a few characters (especially /b, /d, /p, /q and to a lesser extent
    /a, /h, /n, and /u) were a bit too narrow relative to the x height.  Besides adjusting
    those, I've now changed the numerals to old-style (text) figures, and I think
    the improvement is tangible.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/new_inscription/letters_6.png]]\r\nAnd
    see suzuran_120703.pdf attached above.\r\n\r\n(Just for the record, this Flash
    image-manager thing gives me no end of grief.  I've given up on trying to use
    it for now.)"
  created: '2012-07-04 11:00:11'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I'm starting to like this. Keep the gentle curves going. \r\n\r\nTop of stems
    like in /u/ and /n/ can be raised by at least 7-12 units.\r\n\r\n/r u v/ are too
    wide.\r\n\r\nTail of Q should be waaayyyy longer.\r\n\r\nSerifs /S Z s z/ could
    use a little more meat.\r\n\r\nMake the bowls of P and R larger\r\n\r\nL too wide.\r\n\r\nW
    is too narrow. Looks cramped.\r\n\r\nGet rid of the gaps in 6 and 9 or make them
    bigger.\r\n\r\nSpacing is a bit loose in my opinion.\r\n\r\nJust a little more
    work and you've got yourself a little diamond. Keep it up.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-18 12:21:38'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "It\u2019s pointy! Be careful or you might poke your /i/ out with one of those
    serifs. For some reason Castlevania comes to mind, but I don\u2019t know why.\r\n\r\nThe
    /z/ is lopsided. Lean it back to the left more by lengthening the base arm. I
    think you can get away with letting its serif poke out, but don\u2019t let it
    stab anything following."
  created: '2012-07-18 20:26:08'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Yes, I agree that /W is too narrow.  For some reason I was originally reluctant
    to let it get too much wider than /M, but I don't quite recall why anymore.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you say to make the bowls larger, I assume you mean vertically rather than width-wise?\r\n\r\nThe
    tail on /Q could be a bit more prominent, it's true.  On the other hand, I'm not
    generally a big fan of tails that sweep under adjacent characters, which is why
    it's confined to its own glyph space.  I may revisit that, though.\r\n\r\nThese
    and the other suggestions here certainly have merit, I'll look at each of them
    carefully.  Thanks!\r\n\r\nWhat's concerning me at the moment is the oblique weighting
    in characters like /O/o, /C/c and to a certain extent /e.  I'm starting to think
    those characters are 'leaning' too far to the left.\r\n\r\nI'm currently rather
    busy preparing to move from Japan to Canada so I don't expect to get much work
    done on this for the next several weeks..."
  created: '2012-07-21 10:30:24'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I can't seem to add attachments to this thread anymore... I tried to start
    a new one a few days ago, and again just now, but I only get \"internal server
    error\" messages.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I've incorporated many of the suggestions made
    here, and I think things are really taking shape.  Hopefully I'll be able to show
    the results soon (once the forum decides it likes me again)."
  created: '2012-09-27 03:53:55'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Here's the latest.  I think it's looking quite good now, although there are
    still a few areas that I'm not quite sure about (for instance I'm wondering if
    the /e is a bit too wide).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SUZUTITL_3705.PNG]\r\n\r\nAnd
    more extensive demonstrations:\r\nhttp://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_20120925.pdf\r\nhttp://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_letters_20120925.png\r\n\r\nAmong
    the many changes since July: the tops of x-height stems have been raised very
    slightly, the letter-spacing has been tightened up,  the /O/o/C/c/Q/e have been
    heavily reworked, /n and /u were narrowed a tad, and /S /s and /Z /z received
    significant overhauls.  Various other tweaks were made to get a more calligraphic
    feel."
  created: '2012-09-29 01:49:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would shorten the descenders.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 01:49:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking good. \r\nSerif at the top of C and G maybe hangs too low, and its
    shape might need tweaking.\r\nExtending the right baseline serif of r and f more
    would ease spacing gaps.\r\nThe diagonal of 5 looks too slanted to me.\r\nThe
    accents look rather mechanical compared to the construction of the letters.\r\nTitles,
    periods, and commas look too slight. \r\nEar of g looks a bit sad. \r\nTop right
    of U looks wimpy. Could proportions of N's serif work there?\r\nIs the difference
    in width between f's hood and j's hook an issue? I'm not sure.\r\nI agree about
    shortening the descenders. "
  created: '2012-09-29 05:55:23'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "@hrant\r\nWill take another look at the descenders on /j /p /q, maybe /y;
    OTOH I've experimented with a shorter /g and didn't care for the result.  \r\n\r\n@eliason\r\nInclined
    to agree about the /U.  Possibly something between that and the /N serif.  \r\n\r\nI
    think you're right about the /g's ear - I've never been really satisfied with
    it but haven't managed to come up with a better one yet.  Maybe it should simply
    be flared a little more.\r\n\r\nThe slant on the /5 is meant to loosely match
    the angle of /6 and /7 in the same region.\r\n\r\nGood point about the baseline
    /f /r serif.  As far as the hook goes, I'm not perfectly happy with either the
    /f's or the /j's, but I decided early on not to go with the 'inverted-f' style
    /j.\r\n\r\nI reduced the serif on /c and /r considerably in the last update, but
    I was admittedly less aggressive in doing the same to /C /G.  Will revisit.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2012-09-29 15:51:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A nice dark corner of the craft:\r\nThis is a text face (where individual
    glyph beauty needs to be tamed \"for the greater good\") and the \"g\" happens
    to be exactly the glyph that needs to start looking a bit ungainly (due to being
    vertically cramped) for the font to be properly balanced (by not misusing the
    vertical space). Basically in a text font if the \"g\" is too beautiful more important
    things are going wrong.\r\n\r\nAlso: it's very rare for descenders to be at different
    depths (essentially for good reason) so whatever depth the \"g\" ends up at the
    others should (normally) follow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 16:55:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: What *is* the "good reason"? If t needn't go as high as b, why must p go as
    deep as g?
  created: '2012-09-29 17:09:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The good reason is that since the space is available to use* it should be
    used, to amplify boumas. On the other hand there <em>is</em> a case to be made
    in terms of bouma <em>divergence</em> (but much more in the ascenders than the
    descenders).\r\n\r\n*  Thinking of collisions.\r\n\r\nBTW, I do make my \"t\"s
    higher than most people (and my tittles larger) but making it as high as the rest
    just makes it <em>too</em> ugly. Or maybe it's that I don't have the guts (yet).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 17:17:47'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "OK, descenders have been shortened (slightly).  Various serifs have been
    improved, and the consistency of stem widths have been re-checked as well.  Many
    other tweaks, including a narrower /e, modestly redesigned /f and /j, improvements
    to /3 and /5, larger bowls on /P and /R, slightly larger tittles, slight changes
    to accents, etc.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_20121002.pdf\r\nhttp://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_letters_20121002.png\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SUZUTITL_6534.PNG]"
  created: '2012-10-03 03:42:26'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: The more I look at the "2" the more I think there's just something not right
    about it.  I can't quite put my finger on what, exactly, is wrong, though.  Does
    anybody else think the "2" is awkward-looking?
  created: '2012-10-10 16:33:33'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Answering my own question... the bowl weight was poorly balanced and the
    counter a little off.  I've adjusted both. \r\n\r\nAlso just changed the tails
    on '3' and '5' so they look more like oldstyle figures."
  created: '2012-10-12 14:36:10'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Another batch of changes.  'f' and long s reworked again.  Lower arm of 'E',
    'L' reshaped.  Stem of 'J' changed (now slightly concave on right as well as left).
    \ Widened 'AE' ligature.  Increased colour of '4' and '7' a little.  Also adjusted
    a few of the counters, especially 'b' and 'p'.\r\n\r\nAlso added several new characters,
    including section, 1/2, superscript 1-3, various diacritical forms and a few more
    ligatures.  I also put a set of modified lining figures back in (no OT features,
    I just stuck them into the PUA);  I noticed that when the PDF is generated by
    Scribus Acrobat only shows them as a second set of text figures (other PDF viewers
    seem to show them properly though), but the PDF here was generated by OpenOffice
    which seems OK.\r\n\r\nImage: http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_20121017.png\r\nPDF:
    http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_20121017.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-20 13:17:44'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I've concluded the \"pointy\" serifs were a bit too much so... at display
    sizes they gave the impression of ink running off the page, and didn't have enough
    weight at text sizes.\r\n\r\nI also decided the \"beak\" on lowercase /c and /f
    wasn't working.\r\n\r\nOld characters in blue, modified characters black.  I've
    strengthened both upper- and lowercase serifs, and significantly reworked both
    /c and /f.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzu_fixed_chars1_4891.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    also addressed a longstanding flaw: the apostrophe, double-quote and asterisk
    were all very weak.  They've been completely replaced with new versions.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzu_fixed_chars2_6193.png]"
  created: '2012-11-10 16:24:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's a nice shuriken of an asterisk! But I still prefer five-pointers (and
    personally I make them upside-down).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-10 16:52:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like those changes on the letters, especially the \"beak\" change.\r\nPunctuation
    I'd want to see in context to judge."
  created: '2012-11-10 20:05:01'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "@hrant: I settled on six points because I thought it was a bit more reflective
    of the fifteenth-century designs which I'm trying to pay tribute to.  (I just
    made a quick try with five instead of six arms but I didn't really think it worked.)\r\n\r\n@eliason:
    Thanks.  The new quotes in a short sentence:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzu_fixed_chars_3_6140.png]"
  created: '2012-11-12 02:45:49'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: I like the six-pointers asterisk. For the five-pointers, is the space between
    the points should be the same width. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Asterisk_4160.jpg]
  created: '2012-11-12 13:53:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'That punctuation really starts to look Victorian to me. '
  created: '2012-11-12 14:48:49'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "@eliason: You mean 19th-century in general, or a more specific style?  (I
    suspect I'm not quite done playing with them yet.)\r\n\r\n@sim: Yes, the first
    one was created somewhat experimentally - I'm still trying to figure out how best
    to measure rotation angles properly.  I think the new asterisk does a better job
    (I've adjusted it some since the above was taken) but I'm still basically relying
    on my eyes. \r\n"
  created: '2012-11-12 21:39:48'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "@hrant: After thinking more about your comments re the /g, I've adjusted
    it some more.  You're right: I think making it less elegant-looking makes it actually
    more harmonious.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzu_fixed_g_5262.png]\r\n\r\n(Again,
    old version in blue, new in black.)"
  created: '2012-11-22 02:50:04'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Major overhaul of the capitals:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caps_new_6706.png]\r\n\r\nI'm
    starting in on the lowercase next.  Taking a several-week break was a big help,
    I think."
  created: '2012-12-24 00:33:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Spine of /S/ looks thinner in the middle than on the curves.
  created: '2012-12-24 03:55:47'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "You're right.  Thanks.  I was staring at the counters for so long that I
    somehow didn't see that.\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-24 22:37:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Check consistency of thins, too: crossbar of /A/, crossbar of /H/, and thin
    stroke of /X/ all look quite different widths to me.'
  created: '2012-12-24 22:48:43'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "The /A crossbar was intentionally heavier than/H, because I thought it helped
    to counteract the more emphasized open space of the /A.  However, I have moved
    the /A crossbar up significantly, and I'm thinking perhaps I should lighten it
    some more.\r\n\r\n/X, /K /Y thin diagonals do worry me a bit.  I was wondering
    if they could stand to be darker.  Your comments suggest that line of thought
    is on the right track. :)  Thanks!"
  created: '2012-12-25 17:40:51'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Lowercase and numerals now revamped, plus a few more adjustments to the uppercase.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzuran_6384.png]\r\n\r\nI
    think I've finally found a /g ear style that I'm happy with."
  created: '2012-12-28 21:09:23'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: 'Nice update. Is the |U| should be a bit wider?  '
  created: '2012-12-29 15:44:01'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "@sim: I dunno.  You have a point.  OTOH in classic proportions I thought
    the /U was supposed to be about the same optical width as /V.  Maybe the /V is
    too narrow as well, though.\r\n\r\nThere's still something not quite right about
    the overall harmony but it's hard to say what.\r\n\r\nI'm not really happy with
    the /a just yet.  I quite liked the earlier, wider form (seen in various posts
    above), but it didn't really fit in anymore with how I'd redesigned everything
    else over time.  I think I'll try extending the top end a little more to the left,
    and maybe try reducing the bowl height some more.\r\n\r\nI also can't quite shake
    the feeling that /b and /d are faintly off-balance, somehow..."
  created: '2012-12-29 20:08:47'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: I think the issue with the |U| is the bottom.  Try to down the curve, this
    will open the bottom. It also be enlarge to be between the H and the V. You will
    see after if you have to enlarge the |VWXY|. About the harmony I would say it's
    because some letters are too condensed. Compare the |s, g and u| to my point of
    view the |s| should be wider. For the |a| you could go up the left part of the
    top where the serif is, this will open the letter between the serif and the bowl.
    Keep going.
  created: '2012-12-30 15:08:30'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I think you're right, this is a distinct improvement.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hamburg_4311.png]\r\n\r\n/a
    and /s both look more convincing.  I also modifed the tails of several lowercase
    characters."
  created: '2013-01-01 01:27:52'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Here are some more complete samples of the current design (as it's been a
    while):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_20121231.png\r\nhttp://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/suzuran_20121231.pdf\r\n\r\nHappy
    New Year, all."
  created: '2013-01-01 03:55:07'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "This may be slowly getting somewhere.  As before, taking a fresh look after
    a hiatus seems to be pretty useful.  \r\n\r\nThis round, I've redesigned quite
    a few characters, especially /a and /e.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.altsan.org/creative/fonts/suzuran/Type-Suzuran.pdf\">Sample
    PDF (1.5 MB)</a> including my first rough (hand-drawn) sketches of what some of
    the Japanese characters could look like.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzuran2_4671.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suzuran1_4677.png]\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-18 03:10:08'
date: '2012-06-05 13:11:27'
files:
- filename: suzuran.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/suzuran.pdf
- filename: suzuran_sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/suzuran_sample.pdf
- filename: suzuran_120618.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/suzuran_120618.pdf
- filename: suzuran_samples_120618.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/suzuran_samples_120618.pdf
- filename: suzuran_120629.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/suzuran_120629.pdf
- filename: suzuran_120703.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/suzuran_120703.pdf
node_type: forum
title: A first serif font

---
