---
author:
  name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
  picture: 119590
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kelmas-15_3674_5252.png]\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/85030?page=1\r\n\r\nCan't
  decided between that and $30. Because I'm in favor of underpricing. Family would
  sell for x+x/2.\r\nSpacing isn't the greatest."
comments:
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: Go with the $30 price. I say that because IMHO the font has limited commercial
    appeal.
  created: '2012-06-09 14:12:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually think this can become quite popular - don't undersell it! Although
    a two-tier pricing structure (even giving away the basic style for free) might
    be just the ticket.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-09 14:19:17'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Great font, definitely worth the $40 with all the additional features. Will
    you be including the Cyrillic?
  created: '2012-06-09 14:36:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Helpful Hint: don\u2019t give anything away for free. Inveterate cheapskates
    rarely turn into actual buyers; and, to make matters worse, the cheapskates expect
    free technical support, as well."
  created: '2012-06-09 16:00:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I wouldn't "underprice" individual fonts, but offer the family package at
    a large discount.
  created: '2012-06-09 16:04:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But it seems to have worked very well for Jos Buivenga. Museo even ended
    up as Dell's official font. I haven't tried it myself, but I believe it exposes
    lesser-known design[er]s and creates a dependency that can turn some casual users
    into buyers. And this design seems particularly well-suited to a two-tier approach
    because the bonus features are significant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-09 16:08:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nThe exception doesn't disprove the rule. Jos Buivenga designed
    an attractive workhorse of a family, and the Dell seal of approval provided enormous
    cachet. However, the typeface under consideration doesn\u2019t have the same kind
    of universal applicability: it is exquisitely suited for special occasions, and
    will therefore have a limited appeal, so the same dynamics that made the Museo
    family a success will not be in play.\r\n\r\nGiving stuff away may help get your
    name around, but there\u2019s no such thing as a free lunch. I decided to discontinue
    giving fonts away on my website after the practice ended up costing me over $800
    one year. AT the time, I was paying for metered bandwidth, which would have covered
    the traffic on my site, but a lot of external sites were hot-linking back to my
    site, and I paid for them to do so\u2026which proves that no good deed goes unpunished\u2026"
  created: '2012-06-09 18:30:29'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I thought Museo's deal, besides being a beautiful thing, was that it was one
    of the first fonts available from Google.  Same thing with Lobster, I think.
  created: '2012-06-09 19:36:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something else I believe in is putting up nominal barriers. So what about
    charging $1?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-09 21:08:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Ryan, just to set the record straight (sorry Elmantas for hijacking the thread.
    By the way, I agree with Hrant: you could offer a very basic version for a low
    price and offer the advanced features at a \u201Cpremium\u201D price), Museo was
    released back in 2008 (http://exljbris.wordpress.com/2008/03/11/museo-is-out/)
    and was an instant success.\r\nGoogle Fonts launched in 2010 (http://googlecode.blogspot.it/2010/05/introducing-google-font-api-google-font.html),
    and Museo was never among their offering."
  created: '2012-06-09 21:40:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Quite apart from comparing apples with oranges (trade photo-typesetting service
    with mass market digital product), you\u2019re picking and choosing. Today, with
    a multi-user licence (or multi-view), especially an enterprise licence for a corporation,
    a single font can command considerably more than $40 per sale, and a family sale
    can be in six \uFB01gures."
  created: '2012-06-11 16:18:24'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "\"I remember doing work for U&lc, converting their workflow from traditional
    photo-type to desktop composition. Their per issue typography budget for photo-type
    was $35,000.\"\r\n\r\nWow. That amazes me. We are all pikers these days.\r\n\r\nI
    really like discounted families -- but for me this is most valuable for \"workhorse\"
    rather than display families. Granted, something like Bodoni Egyptian can also
    make a great display typeface.\r\n\r\nMy opinion:\r\nThere's not much difference
    between $30 and $40. To me it fits in the same range of \"a little more than cheap.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    may find this tacky, but I think your real choice is between $29 and $39.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I think you should go with $39 and spend the expected extra revenues on excellent
    marketing materials that show situations in which this typeface really sings.
    And also shows how it does paired up with other fonts. For example Idlewild from
    H&FJ: without their support materials that illustrate the different character
    the type can achieve, one might have a very one dimensional view of that design.
    \r\n\r\nThese are just my opinions of course, but I do buy fonts across a range
    of prices from $1 to $1,000.\r\n\r\nPS: I love how Typophile thinks Bodoni is
    spelled wrong."
  created: '2012-06-11 18:24:15'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "The more you charge, the more people will think it is worth. But don't knowingly
    release it with poor spacing (looks ok to me though from the sample). \r\nThere's
    a quite cynical (IMO) marketing ploy being used a fair amount now. Start off with
    a big discount off a fairly high price. Then when the discount ends, immediately
    drop the 'actual' price. What customers thought was a massive discount and therefore
    unmissable turns out to be not that special. Like I said, cynical, but it seems
    to work. I might give it a go one day ;)"
  created: '2012-06-11 19:41:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You know, I had the idea of offering a permanent 90% discount on a greatly
    over-priced item when I was like 9. But my dad said it would never work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-11 20:32:31'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I believe it's illegal in the U.S. to advertise an item as on sale (such
    as \"was $100, now $25\") if it's not a reduction from the actual price that it
    was sold to the public for a reasonable period of time. \r\n\r\nWhen I worked
    in retail I was told that we had to use certain specific phrases like \"a $100
    value\" if the item didn't meet the qualifications to be legally considered a
    sale item. "
  created: '2012-06-11 21:09:39'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Oh crap, when I made the thread it gave me an error so I left and forgot
    about it. Here's the features: http://f.cl.ly/items/2o0h172l2o471E2S3U1L/HazelnutPro%20Features.pdf\r\n\r\nIt's
    \"pro\" (@hrant) because I needed second word to show off small caps and to differentiate
    it from possible featureless version. Cyrillic is included in the both.\r\n\r\nSo
    it seems the biggest question now is the featureless version and not the $10 range.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not worth charging $1, because download difference between that and $0 is drastic.
    Revenue - not so much. One thing's for sure \u2013 Cyrillic speakers would take
    the free version. Because for them there's less gain from paying. Redundant small
    caps and less ligatures/alternates. Also $40 is much more for them than Americans.\r\n\r\nUppercase
    and lowercase amounts to about 1/3 of full version. But it's not worth to charge
    ~$10, is it?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-11 22:42:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The $1 would be intended as a barrier against parasites.\r\n\r\nRelated:
    http://typophile.com/node/10206\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-11 22:43:42'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Party like it's $19.99\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-06-12 06:47:51'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "With this thread I want to avoid \"No way, man.\" prices. Something like
    this: http://www.myfonts.com/person/Manuel_Ramos/\r\nSo:\r\n$40 for Pro, $60 for
    a family.\r\n$15 for Std., $25 for a family.\r\nLooking good? \r\n"
  created: '2012-06-12 09:45:38'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "Only one way to find out ;)\r\nGet it released and find out what happens.
    Prices can always be adjusted later on if sales are slow, but it would be harder
    to raise prices if sales are fast - that kind of thing leaves a bad taste in people's
    mouths.\r\nI think you're fine with those prices though. As long as nothing is
    offered for free. I fully believe that Museo is a success in spite of, not because
    of, its free weights."
  created: '2012-06-12 09:56:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Pricing is also affected by which distributor.\r\nThe price may be consistent
    across the board, but different products perform differently, for many reasons,
    one of which is no doubt price. \r\nIt\u2019s complex. As Dave says, try it and
    see.\r\nI certainly can\u2019t \uFB01gure it out logically, just hope that I\u2019ve
    developed a feel for it after a while.\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-12 16:46:24'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: So it seems both that and -25% were too high - no one bough it. Or simply
    no one liked the font itself. Well, there goes 9 months of my life...
  created: '2012-07-04 14:41:22'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Don't throw in the towel yet! It's only been out 11 days.
  created: '2012-07-04 15:00:33'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I can imagine no better way to tell my previous customers to go F themselves
    then to use the 'price it high with a big discount at first and then drop the
    actual price later' tactic.  I'm almost positive this will reduce your repeat
    customers by huge amount.
  created: '2012-07-05 03:28:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simply adding a font to MyFonts is like doing nothing at all. Without promotion
    even the best ideas are blowing in the wind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-05 06:20:23'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "@Ryan - Whom are you replying to?\r\n@hrant - Not much I can do about it."
  created: '2012-07-05 14:30:52'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Could you include a link to the font on MyFonts here, please? \r\n\r\nPlus,
    how do YOU find out about new/interesting fonts? Make sure that your font is seen
    in the same channels. In my opinion, pricing is hardly ever a motivator to purchase...\r\n\r\nGood
    luck!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-05 16:10:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: On the upside, it is an actual type design, rather than revival or metoo-ism,
    so you can expect the long tail to work in your favor. What are your keywords?
  created: '2012-07-05 17:51:02'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "People don't respect free things.  They hear the word free and in their minds
    that means its not worth anything. They might grab a copy, sure, but they won't
    respect it. They're not gonna run and tell all their friends about the free things
    they got, they're going to brag about the thing they had to save up for months
    to afford.  In order to create value in a customers mind you have to charge them
    something.\r\n\r\nCurrently I'm trying to figure out where the line is drawn between
    undervalued and overvalued.  My guess is somewhere in the $9.99 to $19.99 range.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    believe it or not, the lower you price your goods, the more problems you'll have
    with your customers.  On the face of it it seems ridiculous, what right does someone
    have to complain about something they bought for a dollar?  Now the guy who bought
    something for a thousand dollars, he has the right to complain and ask for favors
    a bit, right?  But that's just not the way it works.  The cheap customers will
    bleed you dry, while the big spenders will hardly ask for anything."
  created: '2012-07-05 18:28:14'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/eimapas/hazelnut-pro/\r\n\r\n@seb MF's Hot New
    Fonts, Behance (I have portfolio there), Dribble, blogs, Twitter, some more. What
    most have in common is featuring, which I can't control. My previous font had
    exposure due to stupidly low price. With this one it feels like throwing good
    stone in the lake and not a single ripple came. Even \"likes\" on Behance hard
    stopped at 14 after the first day...\r\n\r\n@Nick - tags? They're in the link.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-05 21:13:12'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "Eimantas,\r\n\r\nThe 3 keys are 'availability', 'use-ability', and 'cost'
    (and these are all pegged to 'aesthetics').\r\n'Cost' - best to just stick with
    'get as much $'s as possible'. To do that though you need to get 'availability'
    and 'use-ability' working for you first. And you will only find out if a font
    is considered 'useable' if you make it 'available'. It's very much a cat-chasing-it's-tail
    scenario. I can make 2 valuable (i think) observations about the font you are
    trying to sell; (1) It's not a design that will start to earn it's living in the
    highest ranks of type design. (2) If the font was as 'freely available as possible'
    you would find out how 'useable' it is, aka, is it a font that enough designers
    want to use? At the moment the best route to guage a font's 'use-ability' is to
    get it hosted on something like the Google Webfonts server - and get it in front
    of millions of potential users, who can simply decide to use it, or not. You can
    (hopefully) create a large user base. Once you have a user base established, you
    can then more realistically answer the question 'is $40 a reasonable price?' .\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-06 13:05:29'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: So to see if it's worth $40, you give it away for nothing, then if people
    find a use for it, what then? You ask them for the $40 to keep the font, and they
    say "Oh, ok, sure. Here you go."
  created: '2012-07-06 13:25:42'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "<blockquote>So to see if it's worth $40, you give it away for nothing, then
    if people find a use for it, what then? You ask them for the $40 to keep the font,
    and they say \"Oh, ok, sure. Here you go.\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nduhhh! :)\r\n\r\nMy
    point is this - developing a fully fledged typeface family takes a major investment
    of workload (time & skills, and both have a monetary value). It's often said that
    developing a face can take, on average, 2 years. I think Gerrard Unger allways
    uses that average. It's a good one. So that means a number of things, such as,
    1) you should get paid properly for your labour, 2) You don't want to work on
    a face for months/years only to find that not enough real users have a use for
    it, 3) If you are serious about investing so much time in the design of a face,
    then also invest some time in unglamorous stuff like 'real world' user testing.
    Much better than investing all your skill & resources into a finished product
    only to discover it's a dodo.\r\nNow... free software can be a tool par excellance
    for testing and innovating, as you develop a product, and before you launch a
    commercial version into a competitive market. Large foundries do not need to think
    like this because the volume of fonts they put to market means they only need
    a moderate % of stock to succeed, in order to profit *and* subsidise the % that
    is not profitable alone. Small foundries or independent designers cannot allways
    afford to go that route; they have tiny subsidies to play with, if the small guys
    spend too much time developing too many duds they soon go hungry.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-06 21:12:10'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>duhhh! :)</em>\r\n\r\nWith the widespread use of type design tools and
    frequency of releases of typefaces these days, the last thing I would want is
    to give a broad based advance warning of my concept to every competitor. Much
    better to release it finished yourself, that way you get <em>some</em> reward
    for it."
  created: '2012-07-07 01:10:52'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "<blockquote>With the widespread use of type design tools and frequency of
    releases of typefaces these days, the last thing I would want is to give a broad
    based advance warning of my concept to every competitor. Much better to release
    it finished yourself, that way you get some reward for it.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell
    if that was the way the world turned we would still be waiting for the finished
    release of 'The Internet' before we could all go online :) e.g. Apache, WordPress,
    Android, Facebook, Sendmail, php, html, css, oh it's a really long list... basically
    any part of the net that is free-to-use and/or is free-to-hack, is allways under
    development (i.e. it's never finished) and people make money from it. Why would
    digital fonts not be part of that digital ecosystem?"
  created: '2012-07-07 09:56:06'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: Because they don't have advertisements in them.
  children:
  - author:
      name: vernon adams
      picture: 121155
    body: "<blockquote>Because they don't have advertisements in them.</blockquote>\r\n:)
      \ only some of the internet that makes money is co-dependent with advertising
      other peoples stuff, it's no different from traditional non-online markets.\r\nIronically,
      'advertising' is exactly your problem. You have an in progress typeface (it's
      not finished, even if you think it is - more weights and variants, plus tweaks
      and fixes, will come), at the moment it's available from myfonts.com, amongst
      1000's of others. How many people now of it's existence? let alone know if they
      have use for it. The big thing you lack, right now, is getting your font in
      front of a world full of potential users. Forget how good it is, whether typophiles
      rate it, keywords, blah blah, for now. Right now, the more people who see it,
      use it and see it in use, the more potential you have to sell it and/or the
      fonts you have yet to make. Don't release all weights and full language support
      for free though, if you don't want to, keep those for users who are going to
      pay you for the $40+ version. Good luck with it too :)"
    created: '2012-07-07 16:25:27'
  created: '2012-07-07 10:13:19'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "It's not that hard to crack the 'hot new new fonts' category on MyFonts.
    \ It's just the top 50 most money making fonts at the moment.\r\n\r\nI almost
    made it with the only font I have released so far, Mob, selling 13 licenses at
    $6.99 each, I believe I got up to 60th place.  (Yeah, I'm in type design for the
    money, lol.)  \r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/nonbook/mob-pro/\r\n\r\nActually
    it looks like you're in 77th place right now.   \r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/hotnewfonts/?n=1000\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-07 16:37:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So how did it go from infinity (zero sales) to 77 (linearly estimated at
    $70 in sales) in three days?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-07 17:05:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Those nine months are not gone, even if Hazelnut doesn''t sell well. You
    know, experience. Look at the first types released by some of the best contemporary
    type designers: You start out better than many of them. I suspect the similarity
    (in concept) to such a well known design as Broadway might partially explain the
    lack of interest.'
  created: '2012-07-07 18:03:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Central point about the experience, and the good start.\r\n\r\nBroadway:
    I wasn't seeing any significant similarity, but when I looked up Broadway in MyFonts
    it was intriguing to find this: http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontron/sideron/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-07 18:13:38'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "<blockquote>It's not that hard to crack the 'hot new new fonts' category
    on MyFonts. It's just the top 50 most money making fonts at the moment.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIs
    that 'top 50' ranked by 'units being shifted' or by '$$'s being raked in' ? or
    something else?\r\n\r\nSo @Ryan, you reached 60th place by selling 13 licenses
    for a total of $90? May i ask how long it took from release to 60th place? I'm
    guessing the difference between top spot and lower ranking must be pretty steep."
  created: '2012-07-07 19:13:37'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Vernon, it's in total dollars. So selling one license for $200 would put
    you ahead of someone selling 100 licenses for $1 each.\r\n\r\nI released Mob Pro
    with an immediate 90% discount($69.95 -> $6.99).  All sales and discounts last
    for 4 weeks at MyFonts, foundrys have no choice about this.  It was within the
    first four weeks of the release that I reached 60th place, actually I think I
    remember now I reached 55th place.  It took a parabolic trajectory during the
    4 week discount period.  I have now idea where I started, but I got up to 55th
    place sometime, and at the end of the sale I believe I was in 108th place or something
    like that.  As you can tell, I didn't keep exact records of all this, but if I
    had to guess I would say I reached the top of the parabola (55th place) at about
    the 3 week mark.\r\n\r\nThere's no way of knowing how much $$$ you have to move
    to reach first place unless you have actually done it yourself.  I tried prying
    this info out of the MyFonts reps, multiple times, but they remain tight lipped
    about it.\r\n\r\nBTW, since the sale ended in early June, I haven't sold 1 license
    of Mob Pro at full price."
  created: '2012-07-07 19:34:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>All sales and discounts last for 4 weeks at MyFonts</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHow
    often do they let you redo discounts?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>There's no way of knowing
    how much $$$ you have to move to reach first place</blockquote>\r\n\r\nLinear
    estimate (based solely on your numbers): $100/day.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-07 20:06:14'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>How often do they let you redo discounts?</em>\r\n\r\nNot sure.  Haven't
    tried yet.  They did say there is a waiting period.\r\n\r\nYou can get around
    this by lowering your prices.  Haven't tried that either, but it seemed from the
    email convo I had with one of the reps that I could do this at any time, and that
    there was no limit to how many times I could do it.\r\n\r\nI will say again though
    that the 'price it high with a huge discount at first and then lower the price
    as soon as the discount runs out' is a 100% dick move.  In my mind this is just
    a straight up F you to the people who have already paid you.  Even if I priced
    Mob at $20 or something now I would feel this was an a**hole move.  Though the
    first customers only paid $6.95, they thought they were getting a 90% discount
    on $69.95, repricing lower later means they really didn't.  It's just unethical
    in my opinion.\r\n\r\nI'm sure my ethics are costing me however... I'd bet that
    if I price Mob Pro at $5 tomorrow, it would start selling again.  But I'd rather
    do good by the people who have already paid me their money.\r\n\r\n<em>Linear
    estimate (based solely on your numbers): $100/day.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd bet the curve
    was more logarithmic, if I was forced to make the bet one way or another at gun
    point anyway."
  created: '2012-07-07 20:39:03'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: You can set the discount period anywhere between 1 and 45 days. There is a
    minimum time period between discounts on the same font. I think it's about a month.
  created: '2012-07-07 21:09:06'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Dave, I remember reading you could set it up to 45 days.  However I wrote
    in my submission email (which is a totally archaic way to manage online content
    these days) that I wanted 45 days for mob and was only given 4 weeks.  \r\n\r\nIt's
    possible that they could have just not read the submission email properly however."
  created: '2012-07-07 21:17:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So is having a periodic sale 6 weeks out of 10 unethical towards the people
    who unknowingly get caught in the bad 4 weeks? When I go to a department store
    (like every time 4 or more planets align) and I'm going to buy something off-sale
    the clerk will often suggest that I wait for the sale in a couple of days (and
    you can be sure that's because they've told her to do that). But would doing that
    be unethical towards MyFonts?\r\n\r\nThe mind of the consumer is a dark place.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-07 21:35:10'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Just go to your account on myfonts and you can set up promotions online
  created: '2012-07-07 21:48:50'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "To me, having a sale on something every 6 months and then having it return
    to its normal price is a far cry from  pricing something originally at one price,
    and then after that lowering it forever.\r\n\r\nI definitely still plan to have
    sales on Mob in the future.  Absolutely.  But I'm never going to change it's non
    sale price.\r\n\r\nThe mind of the consumer is not so dark. You are one yourself.
    We all are. \r\n\r\nI'm sure you have tons of opinions on the pricing of merchandise
    that is not your own.\r\n\r\nIt's just a matter of removing yourself from your
    product emotionally and then asking yourself honestly, as a consumer, what you
    think of it."
  created: '2012-07-07 23:16:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Agree on some points, disagree on some others.\r\n\r\nBut in any case thanks
    warmly for the inside info.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-08 05:16:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I remember doing work for U&lc, [] Their per issue typography budget for
    photo-type was $35,000.\"\r\n\r\n[Note: this was a service but ITC didn't have
    to pay for font products]\r\n\r\n\"$30, $40 ,$50 per font? We are all a bunch
    of pikers\"\r\n\r\n[Note: this is a product but users automatically get about
    the same \"service\" as in the olden days]\r\n\r\nA font back then cost several
    hundred dollars and the typographic service required back then would cost $100,000
    per issue today. \r\n\r\n\"Wow. That amazes me. We are all pikers these days.\"\r\n\r\nLol,
    if you keep  your apples and oranges straight, and assuming you are employed,
    you can stay well off the pike!;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-08 10:50:22'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "I think after the promotion ends, I'll make std. version free and make pro
    version a lot cheaper.\r\nEven though I never liked changing prices, I have nothing
    to lose. Some money and exposure is better than none at all."
  created: '2012-07-10 07:43:13'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "I think if you really want to make something free, it should NOT be something
    that you've previously sold. If anything, this could lead to people choosing not
    to buy future releases on the off-chance they'll too be offered for free later,
    and it will definitely annoy the people (few as they may be) who paid for it in
    the first place.\r\nInstead of making the standard version free, consider making
    a free demo version - even less character set than the original standard, maybe
    even with letters missing or replaced with your logo - then customers could play
    around with that and possibly decide it's worth their while 'upgrading' to the
    standard or pro versions.\r\nYou have a decent typeface here and to give up on
    it so soon would be silly (IMO). Plenty of my first fonts are pretty bad and never
    really sold that well, but even now, every now and again, one sells. A lifetime
    of selling the odd one is way better than a short blast of giving away thousands."
  created: '2012-07-10 10:53:48'
- author:
    name: Andralexis
    picture: 123725
  body: "The best publicity you can get for a font is getting used by some large company
    or product.\r\n\r\nWait for it. Joe Nicholson's Prosper font lied there for almost
    5 years before EA picked it for their FIFA franchise, and now it's nowhere to
    be found (but highly sought after).\r\n\r\nAs for me, I will certainly keep it
    in mind in the \"interesting\" tab, once a project comes and the font fits in,
    I'm game. The font is very cool, Eimantas, I would be proud of making such a good
    job.\r\n\r\nBest of luck, and keep it coming."
  created: '2012-07-10 18:50:39'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: Too bad one can't survive on pride alone...
  created: '2012-07-11 10:54:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Very few can survive on type design too ;-)
  created: '2012-07-11 11:44:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Good lord, it\u2019s almost as bad as being an artist, actor, writer, musician
    or dancer, or, for that matter, an Olympic athlete!\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-11 14:42:16'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Sometimes a typeface just doesn't connect with the audience. My latest has
    been featured on the myfonts Facebook page, Typedia blog, heavily promoted on
    Twitter and is on offer, but just not selling. Sometimes you have to just accept
    it and move on.
  created: '2012-07-12 08:43:22'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-08-04 01:53:18'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-08-04 01:53:49'
date: '2012-06-08 16:09:28'
title: Is $40 a reasonable price for this?

---
