---
author:
  name: Zuhair Albazi
  picture: 117125
body: "Hello Typophiles,\r\nAfter my first Arabic font \" Adobe Naskh \", please check
  out my second Arabic font, with very special features.\r\n\r\nZuhair Albazi Naskh
  is the most advanced OpenType Arabic typeface ever created, based on Ottoman manuscript.
  This unique typeface contains an unmatched range of features known from the Arabic
  script. It is not merely a font but an ultimate typesetting and design tool for
  the Arabic script in classic Naskh style, with letters variants and calligraphic
  styles, specifically developed to take advantage of the extensive functionality
  for Naskh Arabic typography. The typeface consists of extreme typographic richness
  and full Unicode support while giving access to the special features of Naskh style.
  It faithfully captures the historical Naskh as it evolved from practical calligraphy
  into the best legible Arabic typography ever designed.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_page_1_of_17_5376.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
  high-end Arabic typeface is particularly well suited for traditional book typography.
  The font provides fine typographic control by marrying the latest OpenType technology
  to traditional calligraphic and typographic models. It contains over 3700 Arabic
  glyphs, including contextual alternates for letters and marks and language-specific
  forms. The high quality typeface is character based, almost free of ligatures, as
  only 9 ligatures are included in 3700 Arabic glyphs. Extra care was taken in the
  design of all outlines. The graceful curves, rounded terminals, and the contrast
  between thick and thin strokes are consistent and lively throughout the typeface
  providing all the correct calligraphic shapes for quality Arabic Naskh.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_page_2_of_17_5961.jpg]\r\n\r\nSome
  Key features of the typeface:\r\n\r\n\u2022 Control to use different shape alternates
  for words to achieve the dissimilation of the same letter through variations and
  to open up new creative possibilities for advertising, front pages, greeting and
  business cards.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Control to use different shape alternates for marks
  also like dammatan, fatahatan, kasratan etc.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Control to adjust space
  between words, normal spacing or condensed Naskh spacing.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Beautiful
  swashes (elongated letters) for all words.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Calligraphic Naskh kashida
  (Tatweel) upto three levels of elongations, so the Kashida distribution and frequence
  can be precisely controlled to create Arabic calligraphic documents without a calligrapher.\r\n\r\n\u2022
  Accurate marks positioning, horizontally centered, slightly above or below the letters,
  neither touching the letters nor colliding with adjacent marks.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Control
  to adjust the marks placement on letters, normal close marks or distant marks.\r\n\r\n\u2022
  Thousands of kerning pairs for the fine adjustment of letters specially after Raa,
  Zaa, Waw and before Kaaf.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_page_4_of_17_4543.jpg]\r\n\r\n\u2022
  Special characters for modern and classic Arabic, such as Qur\u2019anic punctuation
  and Tajweed marks.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Proportional and tabular numerals.\r\n\r\n\u2022
  Full Unicode support.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Suitable for any kind of cultural text, from
  religious to poetic and literary, to create sophisticated Arabic literary and academic
  books. Also suitable for large text sizes.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_page_6_of_17_4702.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
  typeface has two styles Regular and Bold.\r\n\r\nDownload the Font Brochure in pdf
  format to view the font and its features in detail.\r\nhttp://www.mediafire.com/?9nnj64xb1vfaqve\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Well done + Congratulations!\r\n> It is not merely a font but an ultimate
    typesetting and design tool \u2026\r\n\r\n1. Font + Tool or just a font?\r\n2.
    Does it need CorelDraw?\r\n3. Does it go with Indesgin, Illustartor, Photoshop
    + M$ Word also?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-19 17:25:54'
- author:
    name: Badr Oraby
    picture: 112008
  body: "Very good, Zuhair.\r\n\r\nI did not launch my font - BADRJALAAL  -, so you
    can say  \" Zuhair Albazi Naskh is the most advanced OpenType Arabic typeface
    ever created, based on Ottoman manuscript. \"  :)\r\n\r\nI see some notes about
    diacritic BOS in few cases like \" Alef Ghengaryyah \" and all diacritics are
    so close to the letters.\r\n\r\nIndeed, the font took a major effort, hoping you
    all the luck and success.\r\n\r\n\r\nBadr Oraby"
  created: '2012-06-20 11:34:49'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Zuhair, I'm curious if you found OpenType to be limited when you were developing
    this?
  created: '2012-06-20 11:44:01'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Brother Aziz Mostafa and Badr Oraby thanks for appreciating the font. I hope
    you may have observed the font brochure and its features. I am also going to add
    some more very powerful features to the font.\r\n\r\n@Aziz Mostafa, It is an OpenType
    font but with so much options that anyone may say that it works like a tool. It
    works well in MS Word and InDesign but I have not checked it with other software.\r\n\r\n@Badr
    Oraby, I will wait for your font BadrJalaal. There are two types of marks in my
    font close and distant. For the small size text I recommend distant marks while
    for larger text size the close marks look more beautiful.\r\n\r\n@abattis, I think
    till yet I have not found that OpenType is limited but yes I have found font software
    and desktop publishing software like MS Word and InDesign much limited or having
    big bugs.\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2012-06-25 21:00:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ It is an OpenType font but with so much options that anyone may say that
    it works like a tool.\r\n\r\nAnyone may say that it works like a tool?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/Cerdik%20Jawi.pdf\r\n\r\n@
    It works well in MS Word and InDesign but I have not checked it with other software.\r\n\r\nNot
    only does the brochure says otherwise, but it also confirms that CorelDraw has
    been exploited?!\r\n\r\nAll the best with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 08:04:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looks very impressive.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of DecoType's system?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 15:10:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Muhammad has done a very impressive job, and I was privileged to be able
    to offer him some technical advice along the way. In addition to the app bugs
    to which Muhammad refers, there were also challenges getting the font to compile
    correctly in VOLT due to GPOS table size overruns.\r\n\r\nHaving a richly featured
    OpenType naskh font of the kind Muhammad has made also enables one to make some
    meaningful comparisons between the OpenType and DecoType ACE approaches to the
    same style. Muhammad's font requirtes 3700 glyphs and a <em>lot</em> of GSUB and
    GPOS lookups to support only one language (Arabic), and requires the typographer
    to be knowledgeable and sensitive enough to know how to utilise the many stylistic
    set features manually to produce various results. DecoType Naskh, on the other
    hand, uses only 541 glyphs to support all the languages covered by the Unicode
    Arabic block*, and significant parts of the layout intelligence are handled, with
    much greater ease and efficiency, by the ACE engine rather than font lookups,
    while various typographic options are accessible through front-end pre-sets in
    Tasmeem (alongside further manual control for those who want it).\r\n\r\n_____\r\n\r\n*
    DecoType's recent fonts are even more efficient. Their Nastaliq has only 452 glyphs,
    and I suspect the Ruqah is even smaller."
  created: '2012-06-27 21:55:25'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "I am really thankful to John Hudson for liking and appreciating the font.
    Without his valuable help I would not have succeeded in preparing such a Masterpiece
    of Arabic Naskh font.\r\nIndeed DecoType ACE (Tasmeem) is a splendid piece of
    work. The greatest ease of work in Tasmeem is that it shows all the variables
    for a word before implementation as compared to my OpenType font in which there
    is no way to do so as it is just a font not a software or software-plugin. But
    using different combinations of letter alternates to produce various shapes for
    a word is very easy in my font as there are only 20 stylistic sets and these 20
    sets can be learned easily in only few minutes.\r\n\r\nMy font also has some advantages
    over DecoType ACE.\r\n\r\n(1) DecoType ACE works only in InDesign while my font
    works in all the applications that support OpenType Arabic fonts.\r\n(2) My font
    has a compatible bold style also while DecoType ACE has regular style Naskh only.\r\n(3)
    The Kashida (Tatweel) insertion and removal is not easy in DecoType ACE as every
    time you have to go to word shaping interface and make your selection when you
    are inserting the kashida. Even you can not remove the kashida from a word with
    Backspace key, instead you have to make your selection again from the word shaping
    interface.  Though it looks very easy in a short work of a single page or few
    pages but it becomes quite time consuming at longer document level.\r\nWhile in
    my font the kashida insertion is very easy by the kashida key and it works in
    all applications and similarly the kashida can be very quickly removed by the
    backspace key. Even at a document level the kashida can be easily removed by find
    and remove command.\r\n(4) In DecoType ACE Marks placement is not very  good and
    in some words the marks placement is even very bad as compared to my font that
    has a very precise placement of marks and it contains the control to use close
    marks or distant marks.\r\n(5) In Zuhair Albazi Naskh the user can apply any specific
    letter shape or mark shape to a complete paragraph or even to a complete document
    with a single click while in DecoType ACE it is not possible.\r\n(6) The DecoType
    ACE Naskh looks very beautiful at large size but on document level i.e. at small
    size it does not look so good. At small size the text looks a bit irregular specially
    when it contains marks. While Zuhair Albazi Naskh Font's beauty and smoothness
    remains at its peak whether the text is smaller or larger.\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2012-07-04 22:47:07'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: What makes this the most beautiful Arabic font?  Although it seems to be quite
    the workhorse as far as allowing users to change things around, overall the outlines
    look rather lazy and bland to me.
  created: '2012-07-05 03:19:09'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ \u2026 my font works in all the applications that support OpenType Arabic
    fonts.\r\n\r\nIncluding windows notepad?!\r\n\r\n@ \u2026 in my font as there
    are only 20 stylistic sets\u2026 can be learned easily in only few minutes.\r\n\r\nHow
    to apply these 20 stylistic in M$ Word or M$ PowerPoint?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-05 03:53:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "@AzizMostafa \r\n\r\nWhy so grumpy? "
  created: '2012-07-05 06:14:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A few, brief comments:\r\n\r\n<em>DecoType ACE (Tasmeem)</em>\r\n\r\nIt is
    important to distinguish and not equate ACE and Tasmeem, in order to be clear
    what we're talking about. Tasmeem is a plug-in for InDesign that provides a particular
    user interface for working with the advanced typographic features of ACE fonts
    via the ACE layout engine. ACE fonts are OpenType fonts with a custom table made
    use of by the ACE engine, which provides script-grammatical shaping for Arabic
    text and enables the kind of advanced typographic controls accessible via an interface
    like Tasmeem. The interface is not the engine.\r\n\r\nRegarding the kashida, this
    is an interesting topic. While the use of the 'kashida key' described by Muhammad
    is indeed convenient, it involves manually editing the underlying text string
    in order to affect a change in the appearance of the text. This isn't quite on
    the level of the old type 1 'expert set' fonts for Latin ligatures, as the 'tatweel'
    character in Unicode is generally ignored in text search and sort operations,
    but it is still philosophically counter to the normal distinction between content
    and display.\r\n\r\nMuhammad is incorrect to suggest that use of manual kashida
    insertion is not supported by ACE and that use of the Tasmeem word shaping interface
    is the only way to access elongations. What ACE does not permit is insertion of
    the kashida in places where is it not permitted by script grammar (which varies,
    around some general rules, according to script style). If a user keys a tatweel
    character code in such a position, ACE trashes it from the string; hence Tom's
    term 'trashida'.\r\n\r\nThere are actually three ways to work with kashida in
    Tasmeem: the manual method as described above, the word shaping interface, which
    is really only suitable for precise control of shorter passages of text or display
    settings (e.g. the very elegant poetry settings in a recent Brill publication),
    and the text shaping interface that can be used with stylistic presets and parameter
    controls to sprinkle the kashida in the text.\r\n\r\nIt should be noted, by the
    way, that automatic kashida insertion for text justification basically doesn't
    really work anywhere: the insertion logic is simplistic, not script-grammatical
    (and definitely not tailored to specific styles as it should be), and incompatible
    between different apps and vendors. Visually, it works only with flat styles of
    type with strictly horizontal baseline connections. Since it is applied after
    text shaping has occurred, it breaks any OpenType font -- such as Muhammad's,
    MS Arabic Typesetting or Urdu Typesetting and the Aldhabi font -- that uses cursive
    attachment positioning to capture top-joining and other vertical relationships
    of Arabic script."
  created: '2012-07-05 20:07:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I pointed out this thread to Thomas Milo, and have received permission to
    post here a passage from his reply that might be helpful:\r\n\r\n\"\r\nRegarding
    kashida insertion Albazi seems to be unaware of the text shaper interface, nor
    does he realize that we have three levels of kashida:\r\n\r\n1. soft kashida,
    designed for large text corpora. It can be sprinkled into the text only with the
    TextShaper menu, which contains stylistic presets plus an editor with elaborate
    configuration parameters. The TextShaper can also be used to wipe or reduce kashidas
    categorically.\r\n2. hard kashida, designed for interactive, visual placement
    using the WordShaper interface. Hard kashida cannot be wiped or affected by the
    textShaper interface.\r\n3. U+0640 Taweel, which can be typed as usual, but will
    be ignored in \"illegal\", i.e., grammatically impossible positions. With another
    font such Tatweels become visible agail. Their codes remain in the text stream.
    The WordShaper menu contains a Text Normalisation sub-menu, that allows for converting
    Tatweel into hard kashida.\r\n\r\nThis architecture is necessary because Tatweel
    is not a normal character and kashida is not a predictable, fixed elongation.
    Historically, the script grammar for it varies between styles.\r\n\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-06 16:10:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "See also:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZipEwMFl3hA\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-07 15:38:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Hi Zuhair,\r\n\r\nI congratulate you with this accomplishment. It's fantastic
    to see the stakes raised in the field of Arabic typography by people who acknowledge
    the real challenges of Arabic script. This is the kind of ambition and professionalism
    that's really needed. I am happy to have colleagues like you.\r\n\r\nI hope to
    see you typeface in beautiful productions.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nt\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-11 10:37:14'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: 'Hi Zuhair! A simple question: what is the filesize of the Regular and the
    Bold style font files? '
  created: '2012-07-11 17:47:22'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Thomas Milo, thank you for liking the font and for your encouraging comments
    on my hard work. I have tried to give wide range of features to Arabic users in
    an opentype font. Your Tasmeem is a marvelous piece of work in Arabic Typography
    and I hope it will be quite difficult for someone to get ahead of it. The most
    astonishing thing in your font is its size as very small size give unbelievably
    huge output. \r\n\r\n@ John Hudson and hrant. I am sorry to comment that manual
    tatweel is not possible in Tasmeem. I was unaware of it as I tested the Tasmeem
    quite a time ago and at that time I just tried the manual tatweel insertion arbitrarily
    just in a few words and I think it happened at places where tatweel insertion
    was not allowed in the software due to script grammar limitation. So I misunderstood
    it.\r\n\r\nNow, after your comments, I once again installed the tasmeem, tested
    it and found the fact as stated by you. If you could confirm, I have found that
    manually only a single tatweel can be inserted at the allowed places while word
    shaping interface allows three levels of tatweel at the same place. Also I have
    found that at some places the limitation is beyond the script grammar like the
    word \"Hasan\" (\u062D\u0633\u0646) as Tasmeem do not allow manual tatweel in
    it while the script grammar allows it.\r\n\r\n@abattis, The font files sizes are\r\nRegular.ttf
    \     778 KB\r\nBold.ttf            787 KB\r\nRegular.otf      941 KB\r\nBold.otf
    \           998 KB\r\n\r\nAlso watch this font in a video\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zb2HvrNprM\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-12 16:47:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If you could confirm, I have found that manually only a single tatweel
    can be inserted at the allowed places while word shaping interface allows three
    levels of tatweel at the same place. </em>\r\n\r\nYes. I'm not sure if this is
    a feature of Tasmeem or of ACE itself, but multiple entries of the kashida character
    result in a single (medium length) kashida. I would probably have implemented
    this differently, equating one kashida character to the narrowest kashida, two
    to the medium, and three to the long, but this seems to me an equivocal decision:
    there is no standard for kashida behaviour, and hence people implement what makes
    sense to them, always with the knowledge that, at some stage, one needs to start
    swallowing additonal kashida characters. In our Aldhabi font for MS, we can accommodate
    up to 10 kashida characters as a long, ligated kashida stroke; if a user enters
    11, 12, 13 etc. kashida characters the stroke doesn't get any longer and the additional
    kashida character glyphs are swallowed in the display."
  created: '2012-07-12 19:21:40'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "@John Hudson.\r\nDoes Kashida swallowing is possible in OpenType font or
    it is done at software level?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-12 19:27:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I do it during OpenType glyph processing. First I ligate multiple individual
    kashida glyphs to the longer variant kashida stroke, in descending order of length,
    longest to shortest. Then, in a separate lookup I ligate the longest kashida stroke
    plus an additional individual kashida to the longest kashida stroke, which swallows
    the individual kashida:\r\n\r\n<code>kashida.10 kashida -> kashida.10</code>\r\n\r\nAt
    present I'm doing this in the 'ccmp' feature, and this works find in MS apps,
    but kashida ligation done in this way doesn't work in InDesign ME, so I need to
    see if I can figure out a workaround in another feature."
  created: '2012-07-13 00:29:23'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "It means if another font is applied to the same text then the swallowed kashida
    will re-appear. \r\n\r\nIn my font I have used a different approach for kashida
    ligation. Also in my font if the kashida is inserted after three levels then,
    instead of swallowing, the calligraphic kashida changes to a straight kashida.
    Similarly if a kashida is inserted at a place where the Arabic Naskh script grammar
    does not allow kashida then also the straight kashida appear at that place. My
    font kashida ligation and kashida rules both work 100% in MS Word as well as InDesign.\r\n\r\nIf
    you find any shorter way of kashida ligation that work in MS Word as well as in
    InDesign then please also contribute it with us. Your approach has always helped
    us a lot.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-13 02:34:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It means if another font is applied to the same text then the swallowed
    kashida will re-appear.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course, because in the case of the kashida
    Unicode character this is a text entry, so whatever you do at the display stage,
    this character remains in the backing string.\r\n\r\n<em>My font kashida ligation
    and kashida rules both work 100% in MS Word as well as InDesign.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    feature did you use for your kashida ligation lookups?"
  created: '2012-07-13 05:26:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Very well done,  Zuhair! This is quite a feat!
  created: '2012-07-13 06:07:34'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "I have made tatweel alternates in quite a different way at glyph level so
    my approach is also different. I used the \"calt\" feature for this purpose and
    used different lookups for each level of ligation in ascending order like this
    \r\n\r\nLookup1\r\n\r\nbehinitial -> behinitial.one\r\n | tatweel\r\n\r\nLookup2\r\n\r\nbehinitial.one
    -> behinitial.two\r\n | tatweel tatweel\r\n\r\nLookup3\r\n\r\nbehinitial.two ->
    behinitial.three\r\n | tatweel tatweel tatweel\r\n\r\nbecause there are only three
    levels of ligation in my font. This way will become a bit longer in your font
    due to 10 levels of ligation in your font but it works in MS Word as well as in
    InDesign.\r\n\r\n@dezcom, thank you so much for your nice and encouraging words.
    \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-13 19:33:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "You lookup description explains the selection of the alternate letterforms
    preceding the kashida(s) but not ligation or swallowing of the kashida glyphs
    themselves. So, for instance, the substitution\r\n\r\n<code>behinitial.two ->
    behinitial.three\r\n| tatweel tatweel tatweel</code>\r\n\r\nresults in the glyph
    string\r\n\r\n/behinitial.three/tatweel/tatweel/tatweel/\r\n\r\nI have similar
    'calt' lookups to handle all my letter variant substitutions too (although I've
    already decomposed to archigraphemes by this point, so I'm handling a generic
    'B' initial letter without dots rather than 'beh'). What I am wondering is how
    you handle the tatweel glyphs themselves.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nThis is the sort of
    thing I am doing with Aldhabi. The elongations are independent strokes of varying
    length that are designed to flow into contextually selected letterforms. The right
    side joining of the elongation is a standard shape, allowing the preceding letterform
    to be selected based on the presence of the elongation. The left side joining
    of the elongation varies, so I have an elongation stroke of each length for each
    of eight different left join shapes. All this was worked out by the designer,
    Tim Holloway. He designed the narrowest elongation of each join shape and the
    widest, and an intermediate 'standard' elongation, and then I used interpolation
    to create all the others.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kashidas_4616.png]"
  created: '2012-07-13 21:37:25'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Very nice font with so much ligation. The elongated tatweels are very beautiful
    and charming. Congratulations, Great work.\r\n\r\n<p><em>What I am wondering is
    how you handle the tatweel glyphs themselves.</em></p>\r\n\r\nThe glyph string
    really becomes\r\n \r\n/behinitial.three/tatweel/tatweel/tatweel/  \r\n\r\nin
    my font as described by you.\r\n\r\nActually in my font the tatweel at such places
    changes to alternate glyph tatweel.alt and the tatweel.alt is an empty glyph with
    some width. In simple words tatweel.alt glyph is similar to space glyph. While
    behinitial, behinitial.one, behinitial.two and behinitial.three has the same width
    i.e. width metrics but having long elongations going far away from glyph width
    metrics. So their elongations go far crossing the width metrics covering the empty
    spaces of tatweel.alt\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-14 00:34:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ah. That's sort of clever but complicated, and doesn't it lead to complexities
    in the left connection of the elongated initial? An alternative solution for you
    would be simply to make your elongated initial forms full width and swallow the
    tatweel glyphs as I so:\r\n\r\n<code>behinitial.three tatweel tatweel tatweel
    -> behinitial.three</code>\r\n\r\nThat seems simpler, I think, and means that
    you can apply 'curs' attachment directly from the /behinitial.three/ to a connecting
    letterforms on the left."
  created: '2012-07-14 01:08:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Okay, this is clever. :)
  created: '2012-07-14 03:33:55'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "<p><em>Tim Holloway designed the narrowest elongation of each join shape
    and the widest, and an intermediate 'standard' elongation, and then I used interpolation
    to create all the others.</p></em>\r\n\r\nIt is interesting to know that you created
    the other elongations by interpolation using narrowest, intermediate and widest
    elongations.\r\n\r\nJohn, If you could explain the interpolation method with some
    detail and images. It will be quite helpful in creating several calligraphic tatweel
    levels.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-14 18:39:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: My approach was a simple one, using FontLab's 'Blend Fonts' function (Tools
    menu). I created separate .vfb sources for each width of elongation stroke. Then
    I used the 'Blend Fonts' function to create Multiple Master width sources (one
    for narrowest to standard elongation, one for standard to widest elongation; it
    would be possible, of course, to do this with only the narrowest and widest, but
    Tim wanted more control over the shape in the most common intermediate widths,
    which correspond to the swash sin). Once I had the Multiple Master sources, I
    went into FontLab's 'Edit Axis Graph' dialogue (Tools / Multiple Master menu)
    and set the low and high values to match the actual advance width of the two elongation
    masters in UPM font units; this allowed me to specify and generate discreet intermediate
    instances based on precise widths.
  created: '2012-07-14 18:42:50'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "<p><em>doesn't it lead to complexities in the left connection of the elongated
    initial?</em></p>\r\n\r\nI did not face any complexity in the left connection
    as right from the beginning I made the left glyphs accordingly.\r\n\r\n<p><em>An
    alternative solution for you would be simply to make your elongated initial forms
    full width and swallow the tatweel glyphs as I so:</em></p>\r\n<p><code>behinitial.three
    tatweel tatweel tatweel -> behinitial.three</code></p>\r\n<p><em>That seems simpler,
    I think, and means that you can apply 'curs' attachment directly from the /behinitial.three/
    to a connecting letterforms on the left.</em></p>\r\n\r\nIt is also a good approach.
    Before adding calligraphic tatweels to my font I tested several approaches and
    I remember I have also tried something like this in the beginning.\r\n\r\n<p><code>behinitial
    tatweel tatweel tatweel -> behinitial.three</code></p>\r\n\r\n\r\nIn this case
    there are at least two benefits. (1) No need to make separate glyph of tatweel.alt
    (2) direct cursive attachment towards left side letter.\r\n\r\nBut I adopted the
    other approach so that the marks can be placed on tatweel.alt and they appear
    on the the elongated letter accordingly as in the image.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Graphic1_3690.jpg]\r\nIn
    first line words have a single tatweel, in second line have two tatweels and in
    third line have three tatweels. The mark length auto-increase with increasing
    tatweel length and if another mark is placed after first, second or third tatweel
    then the first mark length auto-decrease accordingly.\r\n\r\nIf I adopt the above
    described new approach and make the elongated glyph several components for marks
    placement then the marks will require a lot of work and much positioning data
    that is not possible in my font. So in my font the marks placement on tatweel.alt
    saved me from thousands of mark positions\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-15 06:44:10'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: 'Thank you for the valuable information. '
  created: '2012-08-07 14:12:36'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Expanded Space has been added to features list.\r\nNow the the user will
    have the choice of applying any of three kinds of spaces.\r\n\r\n1- Condensed
    Space\r\n2- Default Normal Space\r\n3- Expanded Space\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_Spaces_5826.jpg]"
  created: '2012-08-16 15:32:18'
- author:
    name: Muhammad Rashid Shaikh
  body: "\u0645\u062D\u062A\u0631\u0645 \u062C\u0646\u0627\u0628 \u0632\u06C1\u06CC\u0631
    \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0627\u0632\u06CC \u0635\u0627\u062D\u0628\u0628\r\n\u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0627\u0645
    \u0639\u0644\u06CC\u06A9\u0645 \u0648\u0631\u062D\u0645\u06C3 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u06C1
    \u0648\u0628\u0631\u06A9\u0627\u062A\u06C1\r\n\r\n\u0645\u06CC\u06BA \u06A9\u0626\u06CC
    \u0631\u0648\u0632 \u0633\u06D2 \u0622\u067E \u06A9\u0627 \u0679\u0627\u0626\u067E\u0648
    \u0641\u0627\u0626\u0644 \u067E\u0631 \u06A9\u0627\u0645 \u062F\u06CC\u06A9\u06BE
    \u0631\u06C1\u0627\u06C1\u0648\u06BA \u0627\u0648\u0631 \u06CC\u06C1 \u0633\u0648\u0686
    \u0631\u06C1\u0627 \u062A\u06BE\u0627 \u06A9\u06C1 \u0645\u0627\u0636\u06CC \u06A9\u06D2
    \u062A\u0642\u0631\u06CC\u0628\u0627 \u062A\u06CC\u0646 \u0639\u0634\u0631\u0648\u06BA
    \u067E\u0631 \u0645\u0634\u062A\u0645\u0644 \u0641\u0646 \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u06CC
    \u0633\u06D2 \u062A\u0639\u0644\u0642 \u06A9\u06CC \u0628\u0646\u0627 \u067E\u0631\u06A9\u0686\u06BE
    \u0639\u0631\u0636 \u06A9\u0631\u0648\u06BA\u06D4\u0622\u062C \u06A9\u0686\u06BE
    \u0641\u0631\u0635\u062A \u0645\u0644\u06CC \u06C1\u06D2 \u062A\u0648 \u06A9\u0686\u06BE
    \ \u0644\u06A9\u06BE\u062A\u0627 \u06C1\u0648\u06BA\u06D4 \u0633\u0628 \u0633\u06D2
    \u067E\u06C1\u0644\u06D2 \u062A\u0648 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA \u0622 \u067E \u06A9\u0648
    \u062E\u0637 \u0646\u0633\u062E \u06A9\u06D2 \u0627\u0633 \u0646\u0626\u06D2 \u0641\u0648\u062A\u0679
    \ \u06A9\u0648 \u0688\u0648\u06CC\u0644\u067E \u06A9\u0631\u0646\u06D2\u067E\u0631\u0645\u0628\u0627\u0631\u06A9
    \u0628\u0627\u062F \u067E\u06CC\u0634 \u06A9\u0631\u062A\u0627 \u06C1\u0648\u06BA\u06D4\u062C\u06CC\u0633\u0627
    \u06A9\u06C1 \u0622\u067E \u06A9\u06D2 \u0639\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA \u06C1\u06D2
    \u06A9\u06C1 \u0639\u0644\u0645 \u0648 \u062A\u062D\u0642\u06CC\u0642 \u06A9\u0627
    \u06A9\u0627\u0631\u0648\u0627\u06BA \u0633\u062F\u0627 \u0686\u0644\u062A\u0627
    \u0631\u06C1\u062A\u0627\u06C1\u06D2 \u0627\u0648\u0631  \u0627\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u06CC
    \u0641\u0637\u0631\u062A \u06A9\u06D2 \u0645\u0637\u0627\u0628\u0642 \u0644\u0648\u06AF
    \u062E\u0648\u0628 \u0633\u06D2\u062E\u0648\u0628 \u062A\u0631 \u06A9\u06CC \u062A\u0644\u0627
    \u0634 \u062C\u0627\u0631\u06CC \u0631\u06A9\u06BE\u062A\u06D2 \u06C1\u06CC\u06BA\u06D4\u0631\u0627\u0642\u0645
    \u0627\u0644\u062D\u0631\u0648\u0641 \u06AF\u0632\u0634\u062A\u06C1 \u062A\u06CC\u0646
    \u062F\u06C1\u0627\u0626\u06CC\u0648\u06BA \u0633\u06D2 \u0641\u0646 \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u06CC
    \u06A9\u0627 \u0627\u062F\u0646\u06CC  \u0637\u0627\u0644\u0628 \u0639\u0644\u0645
    \u06C1\u06D2 \u0627\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0633 \u0645\u0648\u0636\u0648\u0639 \u067E\u0631
    \u062F\u0648\u06A9\u062A\u0628 \u06A9\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0644\u0641 \u0628\u06BE\u06CC
    \u06D4\u0648\u06C1 \u062F\u0648\u06A9\u062A\u0628 \u06CC\u06C1 \u06C1\u06CC\u06BA\r\n\u06D4\u062A\u0630\u06A9\u0631\u06C1
    \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u06CC\u0646 \u062C\u0633 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645
    \u0627\u0633\u0644\u0627 \u0645 \u06A9\u06D2 \u0628\u06CC\u0633 \u0646\u0627\u0645\u0648\u0631
    \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u0648\u06BA \u06A9\u06D2\u062D\u0627\u0644\u0627\u062A
    \u060C\u062E\u062F\u0645\u0627\u062A \u0627\u0648\u0631 \u062A\u06CC\u0646 \u0633\u0648
    \u0633\u06D2 \u0632\u0627\u0626\u062F \u0646\u0648\u0627\u062F\u0631 \u0645\u062D\u0641\u0648\u0638
    \u06C1\u06CC\u06BA\r\n\u06D4\u0645\u0642\u0627\u0644\u0627\u062A \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u06CC
    \u0633\u06CC\u0651\u062F \u0646\u0641\u06CC\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u062D\u0633\u06CC\u0646\u06CC\u0613\r\n\r\n\u0622\u062C
    \u06A9\u0644 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA \u0627\u06CC\u06A9 \u0646\u0626\u06D2 \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679
    \u06A9\u0648 \u0688\u0648\u06CC\u0644\u067E \u06A9\u0631 \u0646\u06D2\u06A9\u06D2
    \u0644\u06CC\u06D2 \u06A9\u0648\u0634\u0627\u06BA \u06C1\u0648\u06BA \u0627\u0648\u0631\u0627\u0645\u06CC\u062F
    \u06C1\u06D2 \u06A9\u06C1 \u0627\u0633 \u0628\u0627\u0631\u06D2 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA
    \u0622\u067E \u06A9\u0627 \u062A\u0639\u0627\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0648\u0631\u0645\u0627\u06C1\u0631\u0627\u0646\u06C1
    \u0645\u0634\u0648\u0631\u06D2 \u0645\u062C\u06BE\u06D2 \u062D\u0627\u0635\u0644
    \u0631\u06C1\u06CC\u06BA \u06AF\u06D2\u06D4\u062F\u0631\u0627\u0635\u0644 \u0645\u06CC\u0631\u06CC
    \u062F\u0644\u06CC \u062E\u0648\u0627\u06C1\u0634 \u06C1\u06D2 \u06A9\u06C1 \u0644\u0627\u06C1\u0648\u0631\u06CC
    \u0646\u0633\u062A\u0639\u0644\u06CC\u0642 \u06A9\u0631 \u0627\u06CC\u06A9 \u062E\u0648\u0628\u0635\u0648\u0631\u062A
    \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679 \u0688\u0648\u06CC\u0644\u067E \u06A9\u0631\u0648\u06BA
    \u062C\u0648 \u0641\u0646 \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u06CC \u06A9\u06D2 \u062A\u0645\u0627\u0645
    \u0645\u062D\u0627\u0633\u0646 \u0627\u0648\u0631 \u062C\u0645\u0627\u0644\u06CC\u0627\u062A\u06CC
    \u062E\u0648\u0628\u06CC\u0648\u06BA \u06A9\u0627 \u0645\u062C\u0645\u0648\u0639\u06C1
    \u06C1\u0648\u06D4\u0627\u0641\u0633\u0648 \u06C1\u06D2 \u0627\u0628 \u062A\u06A9
    \u06A9\u0648\u0626\u06CC \u0627\u06CC\u0633\u0627 \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679 \u062A\u06CC\u0627\u0631
    \u0646\u06C1 \u06C1\u0648\u0633\u06A9\u0627\u06D4\u0631\u0627\u0642\u0645 \u06A9\u06CC
    \u0646\u0627\u0686\u06CC\u0632 \u0631\u0627\u0626\u06D2 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA \u0627\u0633
    \u06A9\u06CC \u0628\u0691\u06CC \u0648\u062C\u06C1 \u06CC\u06C1 \u0631\u06C1\u06CC
    \u06A9\u06C1 \u062A\u0631\u06CC\u0628\u0627 \u062A\u0645\u0627\u0645 \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679
    \u06A9\u0631\u06CC\u06A9\u0679\u0631 \u0628\u06CC\u0633\u0688 \u06C1\u06CC\u06BA
    \u062C\u0633 \u06A9\u06CC \u0648\u062C\u06C1 \u0633\u06D2 \u062C\u0648\u0691\u0648\u06BA
    \u0627\u0648\u0631\u067E\u06CC\u0648\u0646\u062F \u0648\u06BA \u0645\u06CC\u06BA
    \u0648\u06C1 \u062D\u0633\u0646 \u0646\u06C1 \u0622\u0633\u06A9\u0627 \u062C\u0648\u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637
    \u06A9\u06D2 \u0642\u0644\u0645 \u0633\u06D2 \u0645\u0645\u06A9\u0646 \u06C1\u06D2\u06D4\u062F\u0648\u0633\u0631\u06CC
    \u0648\u062C\u06C1 \u06CC\u06C1 \u06C1\u0648\u0626\u06CC \u06A9\u06C1 \u0639\u0645\u0648\u0645\u0627
    \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679 \u067E\u0631\u06A9\u0627\u0645 \u06A9\u0631\u0646\u06D2\u0648\u0627\u0644\u06D2
    \u0641\u0646 \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u06CC \u06A9\u06CC \u0628\u0627\u0631\u06CC\u06A9\u06CC\u0648\u06BA
    \u0633\u06D2 \u0646\u0627\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0641 \u067E\u0627\u0626\u06D2 \u06AF\u0626\u06D2
    \u062C\u0628\u06A9\u06C1 \u062E\u0648\u0628\u0635\u0648\u0631\u062A \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679
    \u062A\u06CC\u0627\u0631 \u06A9\u0631\u0646\u06D2\u06A9\u06D2 \u0644\u06CC\u06D2
    \u06CC\u06C1 \u0628\u0646\u06CC\u0627\u062F\u06CC \u0634\u0631\u0637 \u06C1\u06D2\u06D4\r\n\u0628\u06C1\u0631
    \u062D\u0627\u0644 \u0645\u062E\u062A\u0635\u0631\u0627 \u0639\u0631\u0636 \u06C1\u06D2
    \u06A9\u06C1 \u0627\u0633 \u0628\u0627\u0631\u06D2 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA \u0631\u0627\u0642\u0645
    \u0646\u06D2\u0627\u067E\u0646\u06D2 \u0645\u0637\u0627\u0644\u0639\u06D2 \u06A9\u06D2
    \u0628\u0639\u062F \u062C\u0648 \u0637\u0631\u06CC\u0642\u06C1 \u06A9\u0627\u0631
    \u0648\u0636\u0639 \u06A9\u06CC\u0627\u06C1\u06D2  \u0627\u0633 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA
    \u062A\u06CC\u0646 \u067E\u0631\u0648\u06AF\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u06BA \u0633\u06D2
    \u0645\u062F\u062F \u0644\u06CC \u062C\u0627\u0626\u06D2 \u06AF\u06CC \u06CC\u0639\u0646\u06CC\r\n1.Adobe
    Illustrator\r\n2.Font Developer\r\n3.MS Volt\r\n\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u06CC\u06BA
    \u0633\u06D2 \u067E\u06C1\u0644\u06D2 \u067E\u0631\u0648\u06AF\u0631\u0627\u0645
    \u06A9\u06CC \u0645\u062F\u062F \u0633\u06D2 \u062E\u0637\u0627\u0637\u06CC \u06A9\u06D2
    \u062F\u0633\u062A\u06CC\u0627\u0628 \u0644\u06CC\u06AF\u06CC\u0686\u0631\u0632
    \u06A9\u06CC \u0622\u0626\u0648\u0679 \u0644\u0627\u0626\u0646 \u0628\u0646\u0627\u0626\u06CC
    \u062C\u0627\u0626\u06D2 \u06AF\u06CC\u06D4\u062F\u0648\u0633\u0631\u06D2 \u067E\u0631\u06AF\u0631\u0627\u0645
    \u0644\u06CC\u06AF\u06CC\u0686\u0631\u0632 \u0627\u0648\u0631\u0686\u0646\u062F
    \u06AF\u0644\u067E\u0633 \u0627\u0648\u0631 \u062A\u06CC\u0633\u0631\u06D2 \u06A9\u06CC
    \u0645\u062F\u062F \u067E\u0631 \u067E\u0631\u0648\u06AF\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0646\u06AF\u06D4\r\n\u0645\u06CC\u0631\u06CC
    \u0622\u067E \u0633\u06D2 \u06AF\u0632\u0627\u0631\u0634 \u06C1\u06D2 \u06A9\u06C1
    \u0627\u067E\u0646\u06D2 \u062A\u062C\u0631\u0628\u06D2\u06A9\u06CC \u0628\u0646\u06CC\u0627\u062F
    \u067E\u0631\u0645\u0637\u0644\u0639 \u0641\u0631\u0645\u0627\u0626\u06CC\u06BA
    \u06A9\u06C1 \u06A9\u06CC\u0627\u0627\u0633 \u0639\u0645\u0644 \u06A9\u0648\u0645\u0632\u06CC\u062F\u0645\u062E\u062A\u0635\u0631
    \u06A9\u0631\u0646\u0627\u0645\u0645\u06A9\u0646 \u06C1\u06D2\u0627\u0648\u0631
    \u06A9\u06CC\u0627\u06CC\u06C1 \u0645\u0645\u06A9\u0646 \u06C1\u06D2 \u06A9\u06C1
    \u0627\u0628\u062A\u062F\u0627\u0626\u06CC \u062F\u0648 \u067E\u0631\u0648\u06AF\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0648\u06BA
    \u06A9\u06CC \u062C\u06AF\u06C1 \u0635\u0631\u0641 \u0627\u06CC\u06A9 \u067E\u0631\u0648\u06AF\u0631\u0627\u0645
    \u06CC\u0639\u0646\u06CC\r\nFontlab\r\n\u0627\u0633\u062A\u0639\u0645\u0627\u0644
    \u06A9\u06CC\u0627 \u062C\u0627\u0626\u06D2 \u0627\u0648\u0631\u06A9\u0633 \u0637\u0631\u062D
    \u0627\u0633\u062A\u0639\u0645\u0627\u0644 \u06A9\u06CC\u0627\u062C\u0627\u0626\u06D2\u06D4\r\n\u0645\u06CC\u06BA
    \u0622\u067E \u06A9\u06D2 \u0645\u062B\u0628\u062A \u062C\u0648\u0627\u0628 \u06A9\u0627
    \u0645\u0646\u062A\u0638\u0631 \u0631\u06C1\u0648\u06BA\u06AF\u0627\u06D4\r\n\u0627\u06AF\u0631
    \u0622\u067E \u0631\u0627\u0642\u0645 \u06A9\u06CC \u0646\u0627\u0686\u06CC\u0632\u0639\u0644\u0645\u06CC
    \u062E\u062F\u0645\u0627\u062A \u0633\u06D2\u0622\u06AF\u0627\u06C1\u06CC \u062D\u0627\u0635\u0644
    \u06A9\u0631\u0646\u0627 \u0686\u0627\u06C1\u06CC\u06BA \u062A\u0648\u06CC\u06C1\u0627\u06BA
    \u0645\u0644\u0627\u062D\u0638\u06C1 \u0641\u0631\u0645\u0627\u0626\u06CC\u06BA\r\n\r\nwww.openlibrary.com/authors/Muhammad
    Rashid Shaikh\r\n\u0639\u06CC\u062F \u06A9\u06CC \u067E\u06CC\u0634\u06AF\u06CC
    \u0645\u0628\u0627\u0631\u06A9 \u0628\u0627\u062F\u06A9\u06D2 \u0633\u0627\u062A\u06BE
    \u0622\u067E \u0633\u06D2 \u0627\u062C\u0627\u0632\u0628\r\n\r\n\u0645\u062D\u0645\u062F
    \u0631\u0627\u0634\u062F \u0634\u06CC\u062E"
  created: '2012-08-19 06:54:33'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "I suggest instead of further asking you should test fontlab also. If you
    have the practical knowledge of font creator then it will not be difficult for
    you. I have not used font creator so do not know much about it. Also there is
    much material about fontlab that you can easily find on web. In fontlab you can
    also copy and paste directly from illustrator. It is one of the most wide spread
    font tool used by top type designers but it has some limitation.\r\n\r\nIt allows
    maximum 6399 glyphs per file or per font. Looking at your ambitions it will not
    fulfill your need as 6399 is very small number of glyphs for a ligature based
    Nastaleeq font that may contain much large number of glyphs. In this case you
    may try Asia Font Studio that support up to 65,535 glyphs per file. It has almost
    same interface and same functions as Fontlab Studio so if you get satisfied with
    fontlab then you may start work in Asia Font Studio.\r\n\r\nIn short, you have
    to test these software by yourself to find out which one is easy for you and which
    one gives best output outlines in a font.\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-20 02:21:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Ryan Maelhorn:\r\n<cite>What makes this the most beautiful Arabic font?
    Although it seems to be quite the workhorse as far as allowing users to change
    things around, overall the outlines look rather lazy and bland to me.</cite>\r\n\r\nExcept
    for fonts which are limited to special software (InDesign) this is the <em>only</em>
    Arabic font to properly support the script, instead of taking ugly shortcuts.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    since English is not the original poster's first language, I'm willing to allow
    that the \"One of\" in the title was intended to apply to \"the most beautiful\"
    as well as \"the most advanced\" (to achieve the proper idiomatic English parallel
    construction, it should have been \"One of the most advanced and most beautiful
    Arabic OT Naskh Fonts\").\r\n\r\nI am no judge of Arabic script aesthetics, but
    the typeface appeared to me to have a pleasing shape with no obvious need for
    improvement."
  created: '2012-08-20 05:38:05'
- author:
    name: Muhammad Rashid Shaikh
  body: "Dear Zuhair Albazi\r\nThank u for your reply. I am trying to work on fontlab
    and also on asia font studio as u suggested.\r\nDid u have any connection with
    late Syed Nafees ul Husaini(RA) because I have seen titles of many books written
    by Shaikh Musa Al Baazi(RA) in beautiful calligraphy of Syed Nafees ul Husaini,\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2012-08-20 12:44:30'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "@quadibloc.\r\nJohn, thank you for liking and appreciating the font and for
    your nice comments about it.  I have corrected the title of the topic according
    to your suggestion.\r\n\r\n@Rashid.\r\nI met two or three times with Syed Nafees
    Shah (RA), who was one of the biggest calligraphers in the subcontinent. My elder
    brother  Maulana Zubair Albazi has also got khilafah (Ijazah) from him."
  created: '2012-09-03 18:26:11'
- author:
    name: Muhammad Rashid Shaikh
  body: "Dear Zuhair Albazi Sahib\r\nThank u for reply. Pl. inform your cell phone
    and also note my cell nr. 0321-2099742. Pl. inform about e mail address also.\r\nWaiting
    your reply\r\n\r\nMuhammad Rashid Shaikh"
  created: '2012-09-11 10:58:59'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: You may contact me on zuhairbazi at gmail dot com.
  created: '2012-09-25 19:21:03'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Here is a new pdf file, containing Zuhair Albazi Naskh typeface samples,
    to check the printouts of the font at smaller, document level text size. The text
    pages contain Regular style as well as Bold style.\r\n\r\nThe PDF is created from
    Microsoft Word 2010. \r\n\r\nDownload link of the sample PDF file\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mediafire.com/view/?3as61an27y1ojvb"
  created: '2012-10-23 21:21:29'
- author:
    name: Ri993d
  body: "Zulhair, I am new to this site.  Is this font available for download?\r\n\r\nYour
    work looks very promising and I'd like to try it out for myself."
  created: '2012-11-02 14:54:02'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "@Ri993d\r\nMany Thanks for liking the font. \r\n\r\nTill yet I have not released
    the font. I think releasing will take some time. If you like to be informed at
    the time of release then please send your email address at alqalam777 at gmail
    dot com.\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2012-11-05 12:08:26'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Dear Hrant,\r\n\r\nAbout 10 days have passed I have been continuously trying
    to post a new thread but could not succeeded. It always says 500 server internal
    error. I also tried with different computers with different net connections and
    also with other typophile accounts but all in vain. I also tried several times
    to connect the moderators but there was no outcome.  I am able to comment on older
    posts but unable to create new posts. Please help me to solve the problem.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nMuhammad
    Zuhair Albazi"
  created: '2012-11-12 11:41:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, I have no admin privileges here. I could only do what you could do:
    email Punchcut.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-12 14:37:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Wow, guys: when you decide to shun someone, you do a hell of a job\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/98032"
  created: '2012-11-12 14:43:30'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: Thanks, for your kind reply.
  created: '2012-11-12 17:29:49'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nHappy New Islamic Year 1434H to all typophiles\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_Font_10_4522.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_Font_08_4551.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_Font_06_6028.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_Font_05_4030.jpg]"
  created: '2012-11-19 10:11:28'
- author:
    name: moiz217
    picture: 117563
  body: "Hello,\r\nCongratulations Zuhair AlBazi for this extra ordinary work. The
    font is really high quality and nicely done. Especially the tatweel feature is
    very professionally implemented.\r\n\r\nOne question that might benefit many font
    developers is how do you substitute short diacritic marks with long  marks when
    preceded by tatweel.\r\n\r\nThanks and regards.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 18:17:43'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Thanks Moiz for appreciating.\r\n\r\nI substituted shorter diacritical marks
    with longer marks simply by substitution lookups in Volt as shown in the image.\r\n
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Volt substitution lookup_4095.jpg]"
  created: '2012-11-22 10:54:57'
- author:
    name: Khaldoun
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nSorry for the inconvenience. I would have a simple question.
    How is it possible to get this font ? Is it possible to buy it or to get a license
    to use it ?\r\n\r\nThank you very much for your responses !"
  created: '2012-11-29 12:56:21'
- author:
    name: jawadkhan
  body: 'Is this font available for sale now? '
  created: '2012-12-17 06:22:05'
- author:
    name: mateen ahmad
  body: "\u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0639\u0644\u06CC\u06A9\u0645 \r\n\u06CC\u06C1
    \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679\u0633 \u06A9\u06C1\u0627\u06BA \u0633\u06D2 \u062F\u0633\u062A\u06CC\u0627\u0628
    \u06C1\u0648 \u0633\u06A9\u062A\u06D2 \u06C1\u06CC\u06BA\u061F\r\n\u0633\u06CC\u062F
    \u0645\u062A\u06CC\u0646 \u0627\u062D\u0645\u062F \u0634\u0627\u06C1\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-29 04:19:26'
- author:
    name: moiz217
    picture: 117563
  body: "Hello Zuhair Albazi,\r\n\r\nI found Adobe Naskh font very interesting and
    professional in more then one aspect.\r\nNamely, the automatic kashida feature
    is really unique. When used with Naskh justification it automatically inserts
    kashida characters wherever needed.\r\n\r\nI request you to shed some light on
    the implementation details.\r\n\r\nThanks and regards."
  created: '2013-01-31 16:03:27'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "@Mateen Ahmad, Khaldoun  and Jawad Khan\r\nThe font is not ready till yet.
    I hope to get it ready soon Inshallah.\r\n\r\n@moiz\r\nThese are justification
    alternates applied through jalt feature.\r\n\r\nThe font brochure download number
    has passed above 300.  Thanks to all for appreciating the font.  \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: moiz217
      picture: 117563
    body: "Thanks Zuhair for replying.\r\n\r\nI had tried this feature, but it does
      not work in my font as it does in Adobe Naskh. Especially in ligatures like
      \"\u0641\u064A\" and \"\u0644\u064A\" which occur frequently in Arabic text.\r\n\r\nI
      request you to post some screenshots of the jalt feature, if possible.\r\n\r\nMany
      thanks and regards."
    created: '2013-02-07 11:11:05'
  created: '2013-02-07 09:02:24'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "@moiz\r\n\r\nThese are simple substitution lookups applied through jalt feature
    like \r\n\r\n<code>fehyeh.liga  -> fehyeh.liga.swash</code>\r\n\r\nAlso try placing
    the jalt lookup after the \u0641\u064A ligature lookup in the lookup list.\r\n\r\nthanks"
  children:
  - author:
      name: moiz217
      picture: 117563
    body: "Thanks Zuhair for the tip about JALT feature.\r\n\r\nToday I took out some
      time to implement it, and got it working in no time.\r\n\r\nWorking like a charm.\r\n\r\nThanks
      and regards."
    created: '2013-08-01 23:11:02'
  created: '2013-02-11 19:16:53'
- author:
    name: Zeeshan Nasar
    picture: 126477
  body: "great work mr Zuhair Albazi...!\r\nI am also working on a Nastalique Font
    Mher Nastaleeq consisting of calligraphy of My Father Nasrullah Mher...! I will
    post my work here for your kind consideration."
  created: '2013-03-22 17:47:18'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Unbelievable!!!!\r\n\r\nThe font brochure download has passed above <strong>500</strong>.
    \r\n\r\nOn a single forum (Typophile only) it seems quite a high value of likeness
    by all the visitors, specially in case of an Arabic font. \r\n\r\nThanks to all.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: hamad
    body: if we can only try it
    created: '2013-04-20 18:56:28'
  created: '2013-04-15 22:19:18'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Sample of the font with completely revised new marks adjustment.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zuhair_albazi_naskh_calligraphy_5425.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: AzizMostafa
      picture: 111536
    body: "The bottom line begins with a poorly-kerned word.  Make R snuggle (o)!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19609\r\n"
    created: '2013-05-11 05:29:46'
  created: '2013-05-10 21:49:17'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "@Aziz Mostafa\r\nI hope now you will like it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zuhair_albazi_naskh_calligraphy_1_3967.jpg]\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2013-05-20 22:30:54'
- author:
    name: RuKind
  body: "\u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0639\u0644\u06CC\u06A9\u0645\r\n\u06CC\u06C1
    \u0641\u0648\u0646\u0679\u0633 \u06A9\u06C1\u0627\u06BA \u0633\u06D2 \u062F\u0633\u062A\u06CC\u0627\u0628
    \u06C1\u0648 \u0633\u06A9\u062A\u06D2 \u06C1\u06CC\u06BA\u061F\r\nrukind@hotmail.com\r\n\u062C\u0648\u0627\u062F
    \u062E\u0627\u0646"
  created: '2013-05-28 07:58:48'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Update: \r\nSome new beautiful and remarkable features added. For example
    for the first time an Arabic font containing two types of swashes.\r\n\r\nFull
    Volt project of the font (Regular and Bold styles) is rewritten in a higher professional
    way with great improvements in font functionality. Specially the font speed is
    increased to a much much higher extent. Font working very smoothly in InDesign,
    MS Word, Notepad and other Windows applications without any issue.\r\n\r\nCompletely
    revised new marks placement for a much better look in smaller document size text.\r\n\r\nSome
    other optimizations are still in progress.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nMZ"
  created: '2013-06-25 18:20:11'
- author:
    name: talipaltas
  body: "I hope it will be better than Adobe Naskh.\r\nDo you plan any date of sharing
    this font? When we can buy or download your new font?"
  created: '2013-06-29 16:36:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I notice that you are in Turkey. I'm curious, what kinds of things is Arabic
    typesetting used for in Turkey these days?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-29 16:45:59'
- author:
    name: talipaltas
  body: I use Arabic typesetting for my amateur works. Qur'an and tajweed in some
    brochures, handbooks.
  created: '2013-06-30 15:18:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Hrant > I'm curious, what kinds of things is Arabic typesetting used for
    in Turkey these days?\r\nTalipaltas >... for my amateur works. Qur'an and tajweed
    in some brochures, handbooks.\r\n\r\nToo late for Turkey + Malaysia to go back
    to Arabic typesetting?! Had they known?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/74436\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-01 10:22:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think it would be a good idea for Turkish to revert back to Arabic,
    mostly because as an Altaic language it relies heavily on vowels, while Arabic
    is built for consonantal rendering. However -as I opined in my talk at ISType
    in 2012*- it would be beautiful and in fact culturally functional if Turkish type
    designers would inject some Arabic flavor into their Latin designs.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/91821\r\nMake
    some qahwa and watch the video.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "<cite>I don't think it would be a good idea for Turkish to revert back
      to Arabic, mostly because as an Altaic language it relies heavily on vowels,
      while Arabic is built for consonantal rendering.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is a very
      good point. But since Turkey is an Islamic country, while they use the Latin
      alphabet to write Turkish, they also read the Qu'ran. While Ahmadiyya Muslims,
      for example (a Muslim denomination regarded by many Muslims the same way as
      many Christians look at Mormons, Christian Scientists, or Seventh-Day Adventists)
      have no problem with translating the Qu'ran into other languages, mainstream
      Sunni and Shi'a Muslims both have varying degrees of discomfort with translations.\r\n\r\nSo
      typefaces for the Arabic script will continue to be useful in Turkey for a long
      time."
    created: '2014-05-26 02:04:56'
  - author:
      name: Vladimir Tamari
      picture: 113527
    body: 'Concerning Turkey''s abandoning Arabic script (and for all intents and
      purposes, type), I was told by an Ottoman scholar that this has made access
      to much of their pre-1917 literature and historical documents inaccessible to
      ordinary Turks. '
    created: '2014-05-27 08:22:28'
  created: '2013-07-01 13:57:49'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "\r\nWow!!!!\r\n\r\nThe font brochure download has passed above <strong>750</strong>.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for appreciating,\r\nZ.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-23 15:59:53'
- author:
    name: thetypographist
  body: "Arabic is always a pleasure for the eyes. You did a great job. \r\nRegards,\r\nFlorian\r\n[[http://www.thetypographist.com|thetypographist]]"
  created: '2013-07-24 11:12:08'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear Zuhair albazi,\r\n\r\nYour font is very fine and good looking, It  best
    \ features are spacing control and substitute. \r\nThis font is distinguish from
    other font. You deserved appreciation. I hope you fonts designs in future will
    be new  great and  innovative.\r\n\r\nPlease, elaborate more features of your
    work in screen shot, so it can be more inspiring for new comers.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nSaleem
    Ali Ghalib\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-25 06:29:04'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Update:\r\n\r\nAll outlines of the font for regular and bold styles are manually
    optimized. Each style consists of about 4000 glyphs so it took quite long time
    to optimize all the 8000 glyphs of both styles.\r\n\r\nNow, technically, all the
    outlines are in excellent shape. \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-14 05:26:39'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: 'New updates coming soon. . .  .   '
  created: '2013-10-11 00:07:25'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "<strong><cite>New Update:</cite></strong>\r\n\r\nTwo new Styles have been
    added. Now the complete font family consists of 4 fonts:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li><cite>Zuhair
    Albazi Display Naskh (Regular)</cite></li>\r\n<li><cite>Zuhair Albazi Display
    Naskh (Bold)</cite></li>\r\n<li><cite>Zuhair Albazi Text Naskh (Regular)</cite></li>\r\n<li><cite>Zuhair
    Albazi Text Naskh (Bold)</cite></li>\r\n</ul>\r\n<strong>Zuhair Albazi Text Naskh
    </strong> is for smaller document level texts i.e. for texts below 19 point size
    while <strong> Zuhair Albazi Display Naskh </strong> is for 19 and above sizes
    and for headings. So it is the first ever size specific Arabic Naskh font created.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nM.Z."
  created: '2014-05-25 22:21:05'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Quadibloc > But since Turkey is an Islamic country, while they use the Latin
    alphabet to write Turkish, they also read the Qu'ran.\r\n\r\n@ Islamic Republic
    of Turkey?! Grandparents used Latin alphabet?! Read @ digest (5:82) in Qu'ran?!\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-26 03:55:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, agreed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-26 04:10:38'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: "@zuhair: So it is the first ever size specific Arabic Naskh font created.\r\n\r\nThe
    feature you are referring to is called optical sizes and there has been an arabic
    typeface for this purpose before. Just google arabic typeface with optical sizes."
  created: '2014-05-26 09:06:58'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Dear Zuhair\r\nWhen seeking help with volting for my simplified Arabic font
    in the past months  you very kindly and patiently offered me excellent advice
    for which I was duly grateful. http://typophile.com/node/114768  Little did I
    know I was being helped by a true master! I was not aware of the font you were
    developing and today I chanced on this thread and downloaded the pdf.  What a
    splendid naskh font  you have created.\r\n \u0645\u0627 \u0634\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647
    it is so harmonious and elegant and readable. Congratulations and I hope you will
    finish the project and release it for the appreciation of the world soon.\r\nBest
    wishes\r\nVladimir"
  created: '2014-05-26 12:17:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Aziz Mostafa:\r\n<cite>Islamic Republic of Turkey?!</cite>\r\n\r\nI am aware
    that secularism has been a characteristic of the Turkish political system ever
    since Kemal Atat\xFCrk.\r\n\r\nWhen I said that Turkey was an Islamic country,
    I simply meant it in the same way that I would say that the United States is a
    Christian country, or Italy or Mexico (which, unlike the United States, both have
    anticlerical laws similar to Turkey's) are Roman Catholic countries - the majority
    of people there subscribe to those faiths.\r\n\r\nMaybe I should have said that
    Turkey was a Muslim country, but I had thought I had read somewhere that using
    \"Muslim\" in that fashion was incorrect usage, and Islamic is supposed to be
    used instead with the same meaning - most of the people there are Muslims - rather
    than Islamic carrying the different meaning, which I did not intend, that Shari'a
    is the law of the land in Turkey.\r\n\r\nI may be mistaken about conditions on
    the ground in Turkey, but I suspect that changing Turkish to the Latin alphabet,
    so that Turks would find it easier to learn French, German, or English and thus
    turn more towards the West, meant extra effort for the Turkish people, because
    they would still learn the Arabic script as well for the reasons outlined in my
    earlier post.\r\n\r\nAs for the 82nd verse of the 5th Sura, I don't know what
    to say. The United States, although Christian, is not Roman Catholic, and the
    Protestants there, therefore, both lack priests and monks among them, and - in
    the opinion even of many of the Christian people of Europe - are known to manifest
    arrogance at times. Thus, if anything, it seems to defend anti-Americanism from
    the charge of being un-Islamic."
  created: '2014-05-26 14:32:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Islamic, Muslim, tom\xE3to, tom\u0101to. :-)  Turkey is much more Muslim
    than the US is Christian \u2013 your point stands irrespective of technicalities.
    BTW in terms of effort, do note that Turkey was 80% illiterate at the time of
    Atat\xFCrk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-26 18:05:53'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "Thank you Vladimir for you kind best wishes and for so much liking the font.
    I am confident that this font will have a great impact on the future Arabic fonts,
    specially on future Naskh fonts and it will set some new standards. I have observed
    that this font has already affected some very big names in the type designing
    though I would not like to mention their names. But it is a good thing for a designer
    that his work is liked and being followed even by the top experts.\r\n\r\n@Bahman,
    \r\n\r\n<blockquote>there has been an arabic typeface for this purpose before.
    Just google arabic typeface with optical sizes.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI think you
    are referencing to your font but you did not give your views about my unique font
    nor did you admire it so I will also not give here my admiring views about your
    beautiful nice Harir typeface!\r\nIt was obvious from the images and the complete
    thread of my font that it is a true calligraphic Naskh font and I was talking
    in this regard but I should have mentioned it in the quote. I think now the quote
    will be correct.\r\n\r\n<em>So Zuhair Albazi Naskh is the first size specific
    calligraphic Naskh font ever created.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2014-05-26 21:22:19'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: "@Zuhair\r\nLong ago we created a page on facebook (persian type design) and
    with your first post about your typeface we posted a topic about it.\r\nI try
    not to talk too much about something that is obvious. Of course it's unique and
    I admire your work; especially how you created cursive kashidas available in this
    elegant way. Cheers!"
  created: '2014-05-26 21:38:39'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "@Bahman,\r\n\r\nThank you for liking the font. I was not aware of your <em>Persian
    type design</em> page on Facebook as I do not use Facebook but thank you for posting
    a topic about this font.\r\n\r\nThere is a forum named as <cite>Iranian Macintosh
    User Group</cite> on the net that published much detail about my font and how
    it was created. Here is a link to that page \r\n<a href=\"http://forum.irmug.com/viewtopic.php?t=1084&p=39700\">Zuhair
    Albazi Naskh on Iranian Macintosh User Group</a>\r\nThe original Q&A are in English.
    They have translated all those details to Persian language for the their users.
    I thought it may be a thing of interest for some Typophile users so mentioned
    it here.\r\n\r\n@Vladimir\r\nYou have mentioned a great point. Now I agree with
    Aziz Mostafa that it has already been too late for Turkey and Malaysia to go back
    to Arabic typesetting. I think now their is no way for Hrant to disagree at any
    angle as it would be the worst damage in the life of a nation that their common
    people forget their history and lose it at all. \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-27 21:49:54'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Zuhair Albazi  > worst damage in the life of a nation that their common people
    forget their history and lose it at all.\r\n\r\n@ Amok done to the Muslim nations
    through the false flags of Secularism +  Nationalism  before + DemocraZy today,
    by those who backed + still backing the treacherous.\r\n\r\n> it has already been
    too late for Turkey and Malaysia to go back to Arabic.\r\n\r\n@ Islamic awakening
    will bring back Arabic Alphabet as long as the Glorious Quran @ Arabic Calligraphy
    is there. Better late than never?!\r\nAccording to http://www.jawiware.org/, Latin
    was accepted not before 1965 and here is a poster to persuade Malaysian citizens
    to join the army.\r\nhttp://www.malaysiadesignarchive.org/poster-berkhidmatlah-kepada-tanah-air/\r\nIllustrated
    by Hossein Enas in 1951\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jawi-1965_6026.jpg]"
  created: '2014-05-30 05:58:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Aziz Mostafa\r\nIf secularism and democracy are false flags, then how will
    non-Muslims who are minorities within majority-Muslim countries enjoy equality?\r\n\r\nSince
    in many majority-Muslim countries, non-Muslims are treated differently than Muslims
    by the legal system:\r\n\r\n- penalties, including the death penalty, are imposed
    for a Muslim converting to another faith;\r\n- the testimony of a non-Muslim is
    not accorded the same weight in a court of law as that of a Muslim;\r\n- blasphemy
    (against Islam only) is punishable by law;\r\n- permission is required to build
    a church or repair one of a sort not required for building or repairing a mosque;\r\n\r\nmany
    people have assumed that these things are actually a part of Shari'a, or Islamic
    Law, and not merely isolated perversions of Islam that have appeared in some places.
    And that in any case, whether they are part of \"true Islam\", whatever it might
    be or not, that such things would be likely to exist under any regime in the Muslim
    world calling itself Islamic, whereas they do not exist in secular and democratic
    nations like the United States with its First Amendment."
  created: '2014-05-30 12:02:33'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> If secularism and democracy are false flags, then how will non-Muslims
    who are minorities within majority-Muslim countries enjoy equality?\r\n\r\n@ Non-Muslims
    are free to perform their religious rites and ceremonies, and to act according
    to their own canon in matters of personal affairs and religious education.\r\n\r\n>
    penalties, including the death penalty, are imposed for a Muslim converting to
    another faith;\r\n\t\r\n@ Convert to another faith and run amok? Answered here:
    http://typophile.com/node/96179?page=#comment-522069\r\n\r\n> the testimony of
    a non-Muslim is not accorded the same weight in a court of law as that of a Muslim;\r\n\r\n@
    Simply because the non-Muslim does not accept the Islamic punishment (As for those
    who accuse honorable women and do not bring four witnesses, strike them eighty
    lashes, and never accept any testimony from them after that, and they are transgressors)
    the Glorious Quran (24:4) \r\n\r\n>  blasphemy (against Islam only) is punishable
    by law;\r\n@ blasphemy (against All faiths) is punishable by law;\r\n\r\n> permission
    is required to build a church or repair one of a sort not required for building
    or repairing a mosque;\r\n\r\n@ permission is granted to build/repair a church
    \ in majority-Christian area, and\r\n@ permission is granted to build/repair a
    temple in majority-Jew area.\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-30 15:07:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>how will non-Muslims who are minorities within majority-Muslim
    countries enjoy equality?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt is exactly Democracy that cannot
    ensure the long-term well-being of minorities. For proof, see the current emergence
    of the far-right in Europe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-30 22:58:03'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: "<em><strong>Update with a good news</strong></em>.\r\n\r\nThe font brochure
    download has passed above <strong>1600</strong>.\r\n\r\nIt is really amazing.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to all Typophiles for appreciating the font,\r\nZ.A."
  created: '2014-06-16 15:35:12'
- author:
    name: Zuhair Albazi
    picture: 117125
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_0171_5451.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_0172_6327.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_0173_3825.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_0174_4358.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_0175_3861.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zuhair_Albazi_Naskh_0176_3587.jpg]'
  created: '2014-08-08 21:10:01'
- author:
    name: naveed.hameed
  body: "As-salaamu 'Alaykum\r\n\r\nMashAllah this is the best naksh font I have ever
    seen! Mubarak on such an amazing outcome.\r\n\r\nPlease could you kindly advise
    when this beautiful font will be available to purchase? It would come in handly
    on some of the work we are doing.\r\n\r\nJazakAllah"
  created: '2014-09-29 11:22:34'
date: '2012-06-16 19:05:01'
title: One of the most advanced and most beautiful Arabic OT Naskh fonts

---
