---
author:
  name: sko
  picture: 124613
body: "<cite>The legibility of a typeface should not be evaluated on its ability to
  generate a good word shape</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eyemagazine.com/opinion.php?id=110&oid=265\r\n\r\nThe
  title says legibility, though doesn't that refer to how clear/distinct the glyphs
  are?\r\n\r\nEDIT: This was tweeted recently, didn't realise it was around for a
  while (thanks to Eye not dating their posts). And was also on here: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/wordrecognition.aspx"
comments:
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: You're quite right. If the writer had intended to say something not trivially
    obvious, he should have said "the <em>readability</em> of a typeface should not
    be evaluated on its ability to create a good word shape" - <strong>then</strong>
    he would have been taking an anti-bouma stance, instead of merely conforming to
    the standard distinction between readability and legibility.
  created: '2012-06-25 18:33:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>The title says legibility, though doesn't that refer to how clear/distinct
    the glyphs are?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFWIW, I believe that cognitive scientists
    don\u2019t generally use the two terms \u2014 nor hold the distinction \u2014
    in the same way as do typographers."
  created: '2012-06-25 21:25:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[John Savard \u2014 quadibloc] \u201CIf the writer had intended to say something
    not trivially obvious, he should have said \u201Cthe readability of a typeface
    should not be evaluated on its ability to create a good word shape\u201D [etc].\r\n\r\nIn
    the concluding paragraph, the writer, Kevin Larson, writes: \u201CI hope that
    it is clear that the readability and legibility of a typeface should not be evaluated
    on its ability to generate a good word shape.\u201D"
  created: '2012-06-25 23:57:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I disagree with that conclusion.\r\nExtenders must serve some function, or
    else they would not have evolved and \uFB02ourished (so to speak).\r\n\r\nI always
    design typefaces so that the letters combine nicely into attractive-looking word
    shapes.\r\nDoesn\u2019t everyone?\r\nSurely we can\u2019t all be wasting our time?\r\nDon\u2019t
    we believe that type design is NOT about the individual letters, but about creating
    a system of combining glyph shapes?\r\nDon\u2019t we \uFB01nesse our glyph shapes
    and spacing in a metrics window, looking at whole words?\r\n\r\nIf the glyphs
    don\u2019t \uFB01t together nicely into words, then they are harder to read individually
    as letters (crowding).\r\nSo even if people do not \u201Cread\u201D word shapes,
    good word shape is an indication that letters will be optimally readable.\r\n\r\nWhatever,
    I doubt scientists will ever be able to disabuse type designers and graphic designers
    from the myth of the nicely shaped word.\r\n\r\nAnd, when it comes to cursive
    handwriting, surely word shape is indispensible to the reading process.\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 00:42:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If the glyphs don\u2019t \uFB01t together nicely into words, then they
    are harder to read individually as letters (crowding).</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not
    what crowding is.\r\n\r\nThere are any number of good reasons why type designers
    work at producing sets of signs that harmonise in various ways and have the result
    of producing 'attractive-looking word shapes'. Some of these reasons are aesthetic,
    and no less important for that fact, while others are functionally important for
    reading (targeting a particular spatial frequency channel; producing perceptually
    even arrangement of features through good proportion and spacing). So yes, one
    could say that production of nice word shapes is sometimes or often an indicator
    that a typeface is probably doing right a number of things that contribute to
    both beauty and functionality, but if word shape itself is not constitutive of
    reading, then I think Kevin is right to say that it is not in itself an evaluative
    criterion for legibility or readability. Why not? Because it is fairly easy to
    conceive of forms of 'attractive looking word shapes' whose beauty comes from
    different kinds of letter relationships than those that contribute to good readability.
    Indeed, there are numerous styles of calligraphy that are based on such conceptions,
    that are valued for the beauty of their word shapes even though these are not
    readily readable.\r\n\r\n<em>And, when it comes to cursive handwriting, surely
    word shape is indispensible to the reading process.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    we have the evidence to be able to say that. An equally plausible hypothesis is
    that what is important in reading cursive handwriting is the ability to distinguish
    significant letter features from insignificant joining strokes. As someone who
    finds it much easier to identify Arabic letters in the traditional cursive styles
    than in the flat modes of many typefaces (in which the strokes that are significant
    parts of the letter in the traditional styles become merely a connecting line
    between fragments), I suspect letter feature recognition plays the same role in
    reading regardless of whether the letters are disconnected or joined."
  created: '2012-06-26 02:21:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> \u2026 it is fairly easy to conceive of forms of 'attractive looking
    word shapes' whose beauty comes from different kinds of letter relationships than
    those that contribute to good readability. </em>\r\n\r\nYes, but as a measure
    of readability, one wouldn\u2019t be assessing word shapes for such extraneous
    qualities of \u201Cbeauty\u201D as being tarted up with \uFB02ourishes, but for
    how nicely the glyphs \uFB01t together. That\u2019s the attraction of good typography.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026contribute
    to both beauty and functionality\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m sorry I mentioned
    the word attractive. This has nothing to do with beauty and aesthetics conceived
    as the opposites of functionality. Sure, there are many aspects of how type looks
    which are not functional to decoding text, but there is also an area of overlap
    where functionality may be assessed by aesthetic judgement. If a word looks like
    its letters \uFB01t together nicely according to a coherent, well-proportioned
    scheme, that indicates it will be quite readable.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typog_4224.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    this example, compare a word set in one typeface with the same word set in a mix
    of fonts. The aesthetic qualities of the one-font word concern a design which
    organizes its elements for readability according to a set of visual principles
    that coalesce into a style.\r\n\r\nThe word composed of perfectly legible letters
    that don\u2019t match has a nasty word shape, both in its garbled outline and
    in the unevenness of color, with some glyphs crowded together while shunning others,
    creating gaps and pockets in the outline that upset the matrix. (Although no doubt
    priming analytical thinking\u2026)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 07:22:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Well, let's not forget to congratulate Kevlar on getting this fine article
    published. \r\n\r\nAnd yes \"(thanks to [Poke in the] Eye [for] not dating their
    posts)\" ;)"
  created: '2012-06-26 12:40:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, as I said, there are clearly functional aspects to the way we design
    letters to fit together into words, and your illustration shows what happens when
    features are not evenly arranged due to mismatched proportion and spacing. But
    that still seems to me significantly different from 'word shape' as it has been
    understood as a now-rejected model of reading.
  created: '2012-06-26 13:22:51'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Nick, I read \"Typography\" and \"Typorgraphy\".\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 13:51:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But that still seems to me significantly different from 'word shape'
    as it has been understood as a now-rejected model of reading.</em>\r\n\r\nRight,
    that being a loose outline (if indeed that is what Kevin is referring to).\r\nBut
    consequently, his summary makes no sense, as such loose outlines are so general
    as to not describe particular typefaces at all. \r\nBeyond a dislike for the ITC
    version of Garamond, graphic designers have never chosen faces based on the word
    shape of such loose outlines, despite the fact they may still believe the myth
    of word-shape recognition, although cognitive scientists have moved on.\r\nKevin
    has addressed an issue that doesn\u2019t exist.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nHere is a typical
    example of the myth in action: the emphasis is on caps vs. U&lc, not typeface
    selection:\r\nhttp://www.personal.psu.edu/drs18/postershow/\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/UandLC_6289.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 17:29:40'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> Kevin has addressed an issue that doesn\u2019t exist.\r\n\r\nI wish that
    were true. I\u2019ve been told by many typographers that we recognize words by
    simple word shape, and the idea frequently appears in typography texts. I\u2019m
    not terribly interested in arguing if anyone still believes this, as I hope that
    everyone moves on to more interesting theories of reading (and I\u2019ll note
    here that Peter Enneson and William Berkson do not argue for simple word shape).\r\n\r\nMy
    goal with this paper was to bring modern psychology and typography closer together.
    For a long period of time typography has had little influence on reading psychology
    and reading psychology has had little influence on typography. Since writing this
    paper I have been involved in a number of collaborations that I would consider
    very successful. I am hopeful that such collaborations lead to interesting benefits
    for both typography and reading psychology.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 20:38:37'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: '@Kevin - That goes right along with the recently published study where baboons
    were able, to distinguish groupings of characters that formed words from groupings
    that didn''t. This had to be because of their (and our) minds'' ability to make
    subconscious decisions based on word shapes. For instance, a character string
    with three or more consecutive ascenders or descenders is nuch less likely to
    form a word than a string without those particular attributes.'
  created: '2012-07-02 23:25:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>This had to be because of their (and our) minds' ability to make subconscious
    decisions based on word shapes.</em>\r\n\r\nDid you read the published study?
    There is nothing in it to suggest reliance on word shapes."
  created: '2012-07-02 23:29:11'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: 'That''s true - it''s my personal analysis (intuitive, not scientific) of
    what distinguishing characteristics there are in words that could  explain their
    ability to distinguish. '
  created: '2012-07-03 00:30:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kevin, I feel like I have to fight simple-mindedness with simple-mindedness...
    Not least because I've seen what's happened with Peter. But there's a limit to
    how simple I want things to be, and to avoid being lumped with the idiots who
    write fluffy magazine articles for bored peons I'll just have to chime in: the
    \"simple word shape\" (assuming I understand what that means) model is bad, but
    no worse than a model that ignores the obvious and relies on flawed empirical
    testing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/readingresearch_6496.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    only thing I remain confined to getting through to people is the simple-mindedness
    of ignoring the self-evident power of the parafovea.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-03 00:56:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...it's my personal analysis (intuitive, not scientific) of what distinguishing
    characteristics there are in words that could explain their ability to distinguish.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    about letter shapes? Or if you want to get complex, how about patterns of letter-distinguishing
    features? Why intuit that an object made up of letters is distinguished by something
    other than letters? What is salient about the baboon study is that orthographic
    processing is taking place at a high level of competence and reliability, and
    I doubt very much if word shape is even capable of providing the kind of distinctions
    necessary. Word shape is a pretty crude signifier for orthographic processing,
    because so many words and non-words have very similar shapes, e.g. bed bcd, the
    tke.\r\n____\r\n\r\nKevin: <em>I\u2019ve been told by many typographers that we
    recognize words by simple word shape, and the idea frequently appears in typography
    texts.</em>\r\n\r\nDoes it? What I've heard and read often is that 'We read whole
    words', but I've seldom encountered this presumed process described in detail,
    let alone specifically in terms of 'simple word shapes'. And I'm not sure that
    any typographer's concept of a simple word shape corresponds at all to the kind
    of boxes around the outside of letters that seem to be the interpretation of the
    phrase illustrated by the psychologists. Remember, typographers are the same folk
    who are always banging on about the importance of the white, so any concept of
    word shape held by typographers seems bound to involve a figure/ground relationship."
  created: '2012-07-03 01:22:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Kevin: <em>My goal with this paper was to bring modern psychology and typography
    closer together. </em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s one thing.\r\n\r\nHowever, you\u2019ve
    overstepped the mark in suggesting that choosing readable typefaces has nothing
    to do with word shape.  (\u201CI hope that it is clear that the readability and
    legibility of a typeface should not be evaluated on its ability to generate a
    good word shape.\u201D)\r\n\r\nAs John and I have argued, while typographers may
    mistakenly believe the \u201Csimple\u201D or \u201Cbox\u201D outline is the correct
    scienti\uFB01c theory, when it comes to evaluating the readability of faces\u2014and
    choosing which to use\u2014our notion of readability will indeed favor types that
    \u201Cgenerate a good word shape\u201D, because we\u2019re not thinking about
    a simple box outline, but considering rhythm, color, letterspacing, &c. \r\n\r\nIn
    particular, word shapes are very instructive about vertical proportion, which
    is crucial in choosing a type that\u2019s most readable for a speci\uFB01c setting\u2014the
    convention of small x-height in book faces, for instance. "
  created: '2012-07-03 01:57:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well put Nick.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-03 02:05:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Well done, Peter. That's an admirably clear explication of the apparent disconnect
    between psychologists and typographers, and a sensible suggestion for how we might
    come closer to a mutual understanding.
  created: '2012-07-03 16:56:29'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "John writes: <em>\"And I'm not sure that any typographer's concept of a simple
    word shape corresponds at all to the kind of boxes around the outside of letters
    that seem to be the interpretation of the phrase illustrated by the psychologists.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nHere
    are three examples of typographers who support the word shape model:\r\n\r\n1.
    Rolf Rehe in <em>Typography: How to make it most legible</em> (1974, p.35) shows
    an illustration of an envelope around a word and writes:\r\n<em>\"Words are perceived
    by their specific word-shape outline, which is unique for lowercase words. Once
    the outline of the word has been perceived and stored in memory, future recognition
    or recall of the word takes place without letter-by-letter deciphering.\"</em>\r\n(While
    the book is older, Prof. Rehe continues to supports the word shape model. I spoke
    with him at the RIT Reading Digital conference, and he is quite charming.)\r\n\r\n2.
    James Felici in <em>The Complete Manuel of Typography</em> (2003, p.43) shows
    an illustration of the top half and bottom half of a word and writes:\r\n<em>\"Our
    comprehension of the text we read is based largely on the tops of lowercase letters,
    the bottom halves consisting mostly of \u201Clegs and feet.\u201D The top sample
    here (bottom half of word) is impossible to decipher, but the middle sample (top
    half of word) is comprehensible. Rendering those shapes into patterns enables
    us to recognize whole words and phrases at a glance.\"</em>\r\n\r\n3. Jost Hochuli
    in <em>Detail in Typography</em> (2008, p.24) shows an illustration of an envelope
    around a word and writes:\r\n<em>\"Given that an adult reader\u2019s eye registers
    not individual letters but whole words, or parts of them, it is not surprising
    that words play a particularly important role in the reading process.\"</em>\r\n___\r\nSince
    starting to work on typography, I have heard frequently from people about the
    word shape model. I don\u2019t think I\u2019m fighting a ghost. I am hopeful that
    the word shape model is quickly forgotten and that Peter and others build a more
    useful model that can explain current findings about how we read and predict new
    discoveries."
  created: '2012-07-03 23:31:53'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] \u201C\u2026no worse than a model that ignores the obvious and relies
    on flawed empirical testing.\u201D\r\n\r\nYou might be interested to know about
    Hans Werner Hunziker\u2019s claim in <em>Im Auge des Lesers</em>, that \u201CDie
    periphere Unscharfe ist kein Fehler des Systems. Sie vereinfacht und comprimiert
    die Wahrnemung.\u201D [The peripheral un-sharpness isn't a flaw in the [perceptual]
    system \u2014 it simplifies and complements perception.]\r\n\r\nMost studies of
    peripheral vision are focused on the negative effects of crowding on object identification
    in the parafovea and the \u201Cbottleneck\u201D introduced by the fairly narrow
    width of the visual or uncrowded span. Hunziker is more focused on the positive
    effects of the loss of acuity in the periphery. Acuity is <em>Scharfe</em> in
    German and <em>scherpstelling</em> in Dutch, i.e., sharp-rendering. Jerome Lettvin:
    Things are less distinct as they lie farther from my gaze.\r\n\r\nIn the \u201Ccrowding\u201D
    literature there is the perception that feature-detection is preserved, but feature
    integration is messed up with the result that what we see sidelong while fixating
    elsewhere is a jumbled percept. Jerome Lettvin: It is not as if the things go
    out of focus\u2014but rather it\u2019s as if somehow they lose the quality of
    form.\r\n\r\nWhile Rosenholtz and colleagues use a summary statistics representation
    to help provide a visualization of the representation of shape and location information
    at the feature-level of printed text in the periphery that illustrates the limitations
    (see: http://typophile.com/node/92761), Hunziker uses spatial frequency band-pass
    filtering to explore the positive effects: what unsharp-rendering does to joins,
    hatched lines, expression, ambiguous and impossible figures, flicker and dark-light
    styling (notan) in parafoveal vision. See: http://books.google.ca/books?id=8EWbTwAPxrsC&printsec=frontcover&dq=%22im+auge+des+lesers%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=JlPzT_u0FenF0QG03bXYCQ&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22im%20auge%20des%20lesers%22&f=false
    , page 32 and 33. I don\u2019t know how to reconcile the two accounts, but essentially,
    for Hunziker, unsharp rendering makes some things more salient and others less
    intrusive, which probably benefits saccade planning and the subsequent foveal
    uptake of information around fixation. At least, I think that\u2019s Hunziker\u2019s
    point.\r\n\r\nI raise this, because being aware of this parafoveal preview benefit
    dimension is also relevant to ease."
  created: '2012-07-03 23:46:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Kevin. I thought I had a copy of the Hochuli book, but apparently
    I jettisoned it. The second example you give, from Felici, is a different topic,
    although equally wrong-headed. I came across the same view expressed in a video
    by Doyald Young: the phenomenon that the top half of Latin letters are easier
    to recognise in isolation from the bottom half is misinterpreted as implying that
    we 'read the tops of letters'.  But that, like Hochuli's statement, seems to me
    simply sloppy thinking. I suppose that doesn't disqualify it from being evidence
    of 'what typograhers believe', but Rehe's statement is the only one that seems
    to me to amount to a strong statement of belief in a particular mechanism.\r\n\r\n<em>Since
    starting to work on typography, I have heard frequently from people about the
    word shape model.</em>\r\n\r\nDid you ask them to clarify what they meant?"
  created: '2012-07-04 01:16:22'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: 'I was led to believe that it either meant recognizing words on the basis
    of an envelope that went around the word, or a pattern of ascenders or descenders.
    Perhaps I didn''t probe hard enough in such conversations and I missed out on
    something. '
  created: '2012-07-04 02:03:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The Eyes have it, whether they can articulate what they see is yet another
    periodical.
  created: '2012-07-04 03:12:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think I\u2019m fighting a ghost. \"\r\n\r\nGhost no. Word
    shapes definitely exist, and almost any 9 year old can tell you that people read
    both.:) "
  created: '2012-07-04 15:43:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kevin, the examples you give are rationalizations\u2014peoples\u2019 idea
    of the state of scienti\uFB01c understanding of reading, not how they choose type.
    In practice, the Rehe paradigm would be interpreted with regards to the plastic
    categories by which we categorize typefaces, primarily x-height size, because
    that\u2019s just about all the simple outline model reveals (apart from ascender
    overshoot of cap height, relative lengths of ascenders vs. descenders, and particularly
    florid /f\u2019s). \r\n\r\nAnd typographers, even though they may believe the
    \u201Ctop half of the letters\u201D theory, don\u2019t just look at the top of
    words when choosing types, carefully censoring the irrelevant nether regions with
    a piece of paper\u2026\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hamburgefonts_4563.png]\r\n\u2026but
    would, if they are concerned with that aspect of readability, interpret it as
    mitigating against Futura-ish styles, with their samey /a and /o, and in favor
    of a humanist sans or an old style serif face, because those have the greater
    variety in the upper-x height region.\r\n\r\nHow else could one directly implement
    such precepts?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mantovani1_5864.png]\r\nI
    mentioned the more typeface-speci\uFB01c word-shape appraisal method above, which
    takes into account \uFB01ner-grain qualities, e.g. the balance of letter space,
    the harmony of curves, and the relative proportions of counters: this is the most
    probing word-shape appraisal method, employing as it does taste (acquired aesthetic
    discrimination), but it is not strongly related to any one in particular of the
    scienti\uFB01c word-shape paradigms.\r\n\r\nTheory and belief don\u2019t translate
    directly into practice, they\u2019re not coincident, yet they don\u2019t contradict
    one another."
  created: '2012-07-04 17:14:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u201CFurther research is necessary\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd lots of new typefaces."
  created: '2012-07-05 00:45:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[James Felici as quoted by Kevin] <em>Our comprehension of the text we read
    is based largely on the tops of lowercase letters, the bottom halves consisting
    mostly of \u201Clegs and feet.</em>\r\n\r\nConsider this very recent paper:\r\nPerea,
    M., Comesa\xF1a, M., & Soares, A.P. (in press). \r\n\u201CDoes the advantage of
    the upper part of words occur at the lexical level?\u201D\r\nMemory and Cognition.
    DOI: 10.3758/s13421-012-0219-z\r\nhttp://www.uv.es/~mperea/upper_delayed.pdf\r\n\r\nAnd
    this \u201Cposter\u201D presented at the Vision Sciences Society Annual Meeting
    2012, 11 - 16 May 2012, 33.455:\r\n\u201CFrom letter features to syllables to
    words, without a letter stage\u201D\r\nXavier Morin Duchesne, Daniel Fiset, Martin
    Arguin, Frederic Gosselin\r\nhttp://f1000.com/posters/browse/summary/1090698\r\nDaniel
    Fiset, Martin Arguin and Frederic Gosselin are the \u201Cbubbles\u201D people."
  created: '2012-07-05 15:30:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "But first I want to make a movie from here: \r\n\r\n\"Psychologists have
    operationalized \u2018word-shape\u2019 as...\r\n\r\nto here: \r\n\r\n\"...spin-off
    values.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-05 16:54:27'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think there's a huge disconnect between how psychologists try to operationalize
    their terms and how typographers and type designers use the same words in talking
    about their work.\r\n\r\nPsychologists have operationalized \u2018word-shape\u2019
    as 1) the more or less complex (for upper and lower case words) envelope structure
    formed by tracing the exterior outline of the word at it\u2019s boundary, or 2)
    the raw pattern of neutral, ascending and descending characters in their specific
    sequences. For All Caps, these are just rectangular. The only thing that changes
    is aspect ration or horizontal width.\r\n\r\nFor the typographer and type designer,
    word-shape issues are almost totally across-the-word issues like the optical-grammatical
    or gestalt integrity of the word as an an independent, distinct or autonomous,
    internally integrated visual unit made of parts (letters) and part primitives
    (strokes). This than involves spacing, and the counterbalancing of the sub-components
    of the glyphs so they [adding] \u2014 the part primitives \u2014 [end of addition]
    work together seamlessly across the word, while keeping their proper saliences
    and preserving or enhancing their independent cue values, so envelope structure
    and raw pattern hardly ever come into it. The belief is that gestalt integrity
    issues are at bottom functional issues with aesthetic spin-off values.\r\n\r\nAs
    a result it just sounds wrong to suggest that a typeface should not be evaluated
    on its ability to generate a good word shape. That's not exactly what Kevin said.
    Kevin said the <em>readability and legibility</em> of a typeface should not be
    evaluated on its ability to generate a good word shape.\r\n\r\nI think the important
    issues here are the issues of construct validity and valid inference. Does the
    presumed fact that letters are used (Kevin) or the hypothetical conjecture that
    quantization into role-units is the central mechanism (Peter) in the perceptual
    part of word recognition imply that gestalt integrity issue are not of some importance
    functionally? It could be that the legibility of the letters <em>plus</em> their
    ability to contribute to distinct or autonomous, internally integrated visual
    units is fundamental to readability, because the balancing of saliences and cue
    values helps the <em>cortical integrational mechanisms</em> in the visual cortex
    underlying visual word-recognition to run smoothly. This relates to the visual
    span and uncrowded window \u201Cbottleneck\" issues that Gordon Legge and Denis
    Pelli raise.\r\n\r\nLegibility itself is controversial as a construct. It could
    refer to 1) distinguishing one letter from another \u2014 telling them apart.
    This is mainly how it is used by Kevin in some of his collaborations, and underlies
    the construction of confusion matrixes. Legibility could also refer to 2) perceptual
    discrimination at thresholds (distance, visibility, driving speed) of affordance
    in word and letter identification contexts \u2014 accurately and quickly making
    out what\u2019s there. This is how it is used in the Clearview Highway tests.
    Legibility could also refer to how well a type performs (because of the letter
    shapes, or the spacing or the size or the leading) in speed of reading tests.
    This is how it is used by Miles Tinker in his typographical factors series of
    tests. (Tinker used absolute values, but performance curves typically show that
    there is initially a) a steep climb, which b) bends at a knee (what Tinker focussed
    on), leading into c) a wide plateau, at the end of which is d) a gradual decline.
    All these \u2014 the steepness of the climb, the location (b.i)  and (b.ii) angularity
    of the knee, the extent and flatnesss of the plateau \u2014 may vary for different
    factors (weight, size, set) with different types.)\r\n\r\nI suggest we think of
    legibility as an integral value relating to all of these measures, including the
    width of the plateau, and distinguish it from readability as characterized by
    Matthew Luciesh which relates to things like the efficiency of the cortical integrational
    routines and the visual side of text-navigation issues. These kinds of efficiencies
    don't show up easily in standard performance measures (which relate to simple
    affordance, more than ease), but become evident with time on task.\r\n\r\nIn psychology
    there is a sizeable literature on unitization. Unitization is the perceptual learning
    mechanism whereby people group or \u201Cchunk together\u201D smaller object features
    (maybe letters, or possibly role-units) into larger wholes over training (Goldstone,
    1998, 2000). See also: Grossberg, S. (1991b). Unitization, automaticity, temporal
    order, and word recognition. What unitization is, is still controversial, but
    Leslie Blaha and James Townsend appear to show that unitization at the feature
    level is characterized by a shift from extreme limited to extreme super capacity
    processing (as is exhibited in the word superiority effect). When typographers
    and type designers look at gestalt effects or optical-grammatical integrity issues
    (\"word-shape\u201D), they seem to be concerned with effective unitization.\r\n\r\nSo
    a closer look at unitization, a broader understanding of word-shape, a more diversified
    notion of legibility, and a differentiated notion of readability as a distinct
    dimension might bring modern psychology and typography closer together."
  created: '2012-07-05 17:21:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" Rolf Rehe in Typography: How to make it most legible (1974,...\"\r\n\r\nThat
    used to be a commonly used text in design schools when it was first released.
    \ I put it on my students reading list back then, but.  I always wondered why
    he chose that severely negatively tracked Helvetica on the cover?  Even in those
    \"close but not touching\" days, that was really a bit much."
  created: '2012-07-05 21:11:04'
date: '2012-06-25 12:12:14'
node_type: forum
title: Eye article on Readability/Legibility

---
