---
author:
  name: huxley_
body: "As someone who's entering design at a rather fast and wholly enjoyable pace,
  much of my work revolves around typography, and with a rather limited library as
  of now and some money tucked away for such expenditures, I'd really like some help
  about which foundries are the best to buy from.\r\n\r\nBy \"best\" i mean what this
  foundry offers in terms of language support, opentype features, hinting quality,
  best pricing, best library, and the overall quality of the design of the typefaces.\r\n\r\nSo
  from experience can some of you veterans help me out here? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "A hard question to answer. I\u2019ve found some of the most reputable foundries
    to produce faces that \u2013 all the while amazing conceptually and technically
    \u2013 doesn\u2019t really cut it when you put them to actual use (perhaps the
    technical bar was misguided?). Likewise, the best technical productions are not
    necessarily very creative. When you also throw hinting into the criteria mix,
    the whole thing is flipped upside down. "
  created: '2012-06-26 10:39:07'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "Are there any foundries that you have looked at that you have either dismissed
    or have reservations about? As Frode has pointed out, you have presented a very
    wide range of criteria and will encounter problems if trying to match all of them.\r\n\r\nIt
    would also help if you were able to specify what styles of typefaces and for what
    purposes (e.g., web design, print publications, ebooks, etc) you are looking for,
    if that is something you can do at this point."
  children:
  - author:
      name: huxley_
    body: "@Karl Strange \r\nCurrently im looking at Linotype, Berthold, Font Bureau,
      and ParaType.\r\n\r\nFor one example im looking at buying Akzidenz Grotesk,
      Berthold offers BQ and BE versions (can anyone elaborate on the difference between
      the two?) and Linotype offers Basic Commercial; which would be the best route?\r\n\r\nAlso
      im planning on doing a mix of digital/web/print work (most likely mostly digital/web
      work) if that helps at all."
    children:
    - author:
        name: Karl Stange
        picture: 118040
      body: "<blockquote>For one example im looking at buying Akzidenz Grotesk, Berthold
        offers BQ and BE versions (can anyone elaborate on the difference between
        the two?)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI think that both BE (possibly, 'Berthold Exclusivs')
        and BQ (again possibly, 'Berthold Qualit\xE4t') versions are based on Postscript
        Type 1 digitisations by Adobe but with a split in the licensing, with Adobe
        selling the BE versions through their Font Folio collection up until version
        8 and the BQ versions only available through Berthold and a variety of third
        party distributors.\r\n\r\nBoth versions are now available through the Berthold
        web site but the following notice is posted to distinguish between them, \"The
        BQ and BE OpenType Basic versions correspond to the Berthold BQ and Adobe
        BE PostScript Type 1 Legacy versions.\" Further, the BE versions in OT are
        only available with basic language support, roughly (if not exactly) equivalent
        to Adobe's defined Std character support, while the BQ versions are available
        with with Pro and Pro + WGL language support.\r\n\r\nPerhaps someone else
        here could elaborate on this, but this is very much my own understanding and
        opinion based on information cobbled together over several years.\r\n\r\nAs
        to whether to invest in either of these, well personally I would probably
        go with a more contemporary take on this style of typeface. Also, to the best
        of my knowledge, there are currently no web font versions available and the
        cost and restrictions associated with digital embedding and licensing are
        not clearly defined on their website.\r\n\r\n"
      created: '2012-07-01 10:42:46'
    created: '2012-06-26 20:30:29'
  created: '2012-06-26 14:14:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/92109\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/65287\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/8897\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/50972\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/39103\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30047"
  created: '2012-06-26 14:44:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Choose a foundry that allows you to freely modify the fonts (although of
    course keeping the resultant fonts to yourself).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 14:52:54'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: 'A more modern (and imo better) take on AG: Founders Grotesk and/or National
    by Kris Sowersby. Available at Village (a very nice foundry).'
  created: '2012-06-28 12:34:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Or <a href="http://optimo.ch/typefaces_Theinhardt.html">Theinhardt</a> from
    Optimo.
  created: '2012-06-28 14:30:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<blockquote>A more modern (and imo better) take on AG ...</blockquote>\r\n\r\n...
    is not AG any more. (What makes AG unique is the sum of its oddities.)\r\n\r\nAnother
    slightly earlier modern take, Lineto's Akkurat."
  created: '2012-06-28 18:36:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think that degree of distinguishment is illusory; any typeface is always
    an <em>idea</em> to a great extent. Otherwise you end up having to believe that
    only a given size of a given face, printed on a given paper, etc. is the \"real
    thing\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-28 20:59:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Choose a foundry that allows you to freely modify the fonts </cite>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the percentage of type users who actually modify their fonts regularly? \r\n\r\nConcerning
    the original questions: What's the best car manufacturer to buy from? No one can
    answer that in general. It depends on your specific needs or the requirements
    of a certain project when it comes to type. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-29 09:51:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's the percentage of type users who actually <em>pay for</em> their fonts
    regularly?\r\n\r\nFrom Huxley's post it's clear he's not a typical user - he's
    picky. And picky people like to tweak things.\r\n\r\nAt the very least people
    like Huxley should be made much more aware that most foundries don't allow free
    modification; it's almost like a hidden charge, something I'm firmly against.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-29 14:33:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"And picky people like to tweak things.\"\r\n\r\nA generalization, jumped
    to most likely for the purpose of \"discussion enhancement\", but that's cool.
    It could also be that the picky user chooses a few foundries for exactly the opposite
    reason \u2014 they don't want to be compelled by fondness of form into making
    any mods due to faults in function, and they want to minimize that possibility
    via their choice of foundry.\r\n\r\n\"...almost like a hidden charge, something
    I'm firmly against.\"\r\n\r\nHow should founders expose this 'hidden' possibility
    of an extra licensing requirement for those who may possibly want to take our
    work and partially or wholey make it look otherwise, for better or worse, something
    we don't know up front 100% of the time? :)"
  created: '2012-06-30 11:16:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>they want to minimize that possibility via their choice of foundry.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGood
    point.\r\n\r\nSometimes though overall quality doesn't preclude the need to tweak.
    Adobe fonts are high-quality, but I still once got a commission to extend Garamond
    Premier with some esoteric accented characters, something I could do legally.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>How
    should founders expose this 'hidden' possibility</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGood question
    - I'm not sure how to do that elegantly. Mainly I worry that some foundries are
    happy to keep it hidden. And the reason it's \"hidden\" is because I believe most
    font buyers don't expect a no-mod restriction to be there. So it's a matter of
    education (which is what I'm trying to do, in a small way). And I think when enough
    buyers realize that restriction has become the rule (AFAIR it didn't used to be)
    then foundries will be pressured to be more accommodating, or at least more transparent.
    Why do I care, as somebody who tries to sell fonts and rarely needs to buy them?
    Because I think ethical behavior is something that comes around when it goes around.
    And as I've opined before, there's something vaguely unethical with being draconian
    about user modification, since any font we make owes things to others anyway.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    about \"discussion enhancement\": Although I firmly believe in publicly going
    out on a limb with borderline opinions, they're always on my side of the border
    - I don't say something I don't believe in just to get people riled up, I actually
    believe in it. That said, beliefs change, and that's OK (it's probably even good).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-30 14:45:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">what this foundry offers in terms of language support, opentype features,
    hinting quality, best pricing, best library, and the overall quality of the design
    of the typefaces.\r\n\r\nI'm going to say with complete unbiased authority that
    the foundry that best meets all of these criteria is Microsoft. If you'd included
    modification rights and/or weight variation availability, that would not have
    been the case. If you'd excluded language support I would have nominated The Font
    Bureau. "
  created: '2012-06-30 15:29:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ralf, a type user would hire a type designer to do the mods.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-30 16:05:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>Best [\u2026] overall quality of the design</em> does not sound like
    Microsoft to me. I guess it depends on how you define \u201Cquality design\u201D
    though. Technical, sure. Creative \u2026 umph.\r\n\r\nIs Microsoft even a foundry? "
  created: '2012-06-30 16:52:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think so, since they pay for the making of \"own-brand\" fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-30 16:57:32'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Microsofts web fonts are great. No question about that.
  created: '2012-06-30 17:09:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Creative \u2026 umph.\r\n\r\nAre you familiar with the work of John Hudson,
    Ross Mills, Matthew Carter, Luc (de) Groot, Vincent Connare, Steve Matteson, Jeremy
    Tankard, Gary Munch, Diane Collier, Mamoun Sakkal, Fiona Ross, etc., etc., ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 02:07:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Which would you say are Microsoft\u2019s most creative type designs, Si?\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 06:24:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "What actually constitutes the foundry? Ascender? The bundled Win/Office fonts
    sure includes some gems, but overall it\u2019s not a pinaccle of contemporary
    type design."
  created: '2012-07-01 11:37:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Some good points, some need for border pa-troll.;)\r\n\r\nHrant: \"...it's
    \"hidden\" is because I believe most font buyers don't expect a no-mod restriction
    to be there...\"\r\n\r\nIn the years ive been around, none of our customers \"buy\"
    a font, so I'm afraid I'm out of you experiential league. \r\n\r\n(proper terminology
    being a matter of education, which is what I'm trying to do, in a small way)\r\n\r\nAnd:
    \"Ralf, [said Hrant] a type user would hire a type designer to do the mods.\"\r\n\r\nSo,
    should we put that in the licensing agreement?\r\n\r\n(if all goes as planned,
    we should be able to reap legal definitions of \"foundry\",  \"type designer\",
    and \"creative\" from a single thread \u2014 Imagine.)"
  created: '2012-07-01 13:23:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As you imply, educating consumers on \"buy\" versus \"license\" is part of
    the conundrum. But the reality on the ground is that when somebody plops down
    the dough to get something, they think of it as \"buying\". Virtually nobody knows
    what an EULA is, much less go to the trouble of reading the thing. It's just not
    humanly natural; nobody would go for <em>having</em> to read (and understand!)
    an EULA before being allowed to use the product. Now, we certainly can't change
    human nature, and we probably can't change the sue-happy trench we're stuck in
    in the West, but my main point is we shouldn't <em>take advantage</em> of lack
    of education. And to me the \"no-mod\" clause stands out as particularly potentially
    dishonest; I'm starting to think we need an explicit opt-in on it, to be sufficiently
    ethical.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 14:46:42'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Even though we specifically allow font modification in our EULA, I don't
    think this point matters much in choosing fonts and foundries. (Quite unlike embedding
    permission, media restrictions and things like that.)\r\nWell sell software tools
    \u2014 ready to use \u2014\_no assembly required. You can't even open and \u201Csave\u201D
    a font non-desctructively like you can with a Word file. A normal type user would
    always mess something up. If you want your users to change the fonts you should
    give them your original files from FontLab, Fontographer, Glyphs, RoboFont, ...\r\nSo
    the requirement to be allowed to change the font files only applies to a tiny
    percentage of type users, mostly those who are type designers themselves. "
  created: '2012-07-01 17:57:59'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> I'm starting to think we need an explicit opt-in on it, to be sufficiently
    ethical.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf so, this should apply to truly unexpected limitations
    in the EULA, that affect normal type use. \r\nFor example: Type users are often
    shocked to find out, that the license they purchased doesn\u2019t cover the creating
    of a logo or the embedding of the font in a regular subsetted PDF. These limitations
    might require an extra warning or checkbox during the purchase.\r\n\r\nBut like
    I said: Changing a font file is not normal type use. If you license something,
    you expect to be able to use it as is. If I license a software tool like InDesign,
    I don't expect to be allowed to reverse-engineer it. I expect to be able to use
    it \u201Cnormally\u201D. \r\nAnd if a few type users really want to make changes
    to a font, they can just ask the foundry. The foundry either allows it (despite
    what their EULA says) or they make you an offer to do the modifications you want.
    No big deal. \r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 18:36:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Which would you say are Microsoft\u2019s most creative type designs, Si?\r\n\r\n\"Creative\"\r\n1.able
    to create: able to create things\r\n2.new and original: using or showing use of
    the imagination to create new ideas or things\r\n3.resourceful: making imaginative
    use of the limited resources available\r\n\r\nFor 2, Gabriola, Aldhabi, Verdana,
    Arabic Typesetting, Segoe Script, Marlett, Nirmala\r\nFor 3, pretty much everything
    else.\r\n "
  created: '2012-07-01 19:10:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>If so, this should apply to truly unexpected limitations in the
    EULA, that affect normal type use.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGood point - agreed.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    foundry either allows it (despite what their EULA says) or they make you an offer
    to do the modifications you want.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAt double, triple market
    prices, is my point. And if they're too busy to bother, they sometimes just say
    No. These complications wouldn't be so bad if users knew about them before purchase;
    but we don't really try to be transparent about it...\r\n\r\nAnd I think there's
    actually more font modification going on than we think, because users just do
    it without telling us. Besides ethics I think there might actually be material
    gains to be had by being fully open about modification issues. And most of all,
    you don't want a user getting in the habit of breaking the law (at your expense).
    If a user comes to terms with breaking your EULA by modifying a font, next time
    he might break the EULA by not even bothering to pay for the thing...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 20:31:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hrant: \"If a user comes to terms with breaking your EULA by modifying a
    font, next time he might break the EULA by not even bothering to pay for the thing...\"\r\n\r\n...and
    before you know it, the user's in your garage stealing your chain saw oil, claiming
    it's his 'cause he's already stolen your chain saw. . . \r\n\r\nThis is not what
    the no-mod eula is made to prevent. We, and many others. including the MS foundry,
    are trying very hard to make it so that every one of the tens of 1,000's of fonts
    that have the same name (sometimes the millions of fonts that have the same name),
    when given the same composition specification, exhibit the same behavior. \r\n\r\nIf
    the default in our eulas were otherwise, i.e. mod-away and name-as-ya-please,
    then what'd happen?\r\n\r\n(In terms of 'language support, opentype features,
    hinting quality, best pricing, best library, and the overall quality of the design
    of the typefaces', i.e. if the user is not interested in mod making, which this
    user is not, sorry for the tangent to nowhere... I tried. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 22:00:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm aware of the \"tech support\" dimension (especially when it comes to
    MS) but -for anybody bothering to read the EULA anyway- why not say \"change the
    name\" instead of \"don't modify\"? BTW I would add a clause that a copy of the
    modified version must be sent home (and cannot be redistributed). I think \"go
    ahead, just rename it and give me a copy\" would actually increase control one
    has over \"errant\" versions, compared to saying Nyet (which often causes people
    to pretend you don't exist).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 23:13:35'
- author:
    name: gfrederickk
  body: "<blockquote>What's the percentage of type users who actually pay for their
    fonts regularly?\r\n\r\nFrom Huxley's post it's clear he's not a typical user
    - he's picky. And picky people like to tweak things.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nhrant
    --- I'm a designer and lover of typography, but not a typeface designer. Still,
    it seems pretty simple to me:\r\n-- You purchase a license to use a font under
    conditions you agree to.\r\n-- If you don't like those conditions, or you have
    a concept for a rethinking of an existing typeface, you can make your own font.
    Go ahead. Software is available.\r\n-- If you don't have the skill or time to
    design a typeface and build a font, then you should choose an available option.\r\n\r\nModification
    is not difficult to accomplish. You've already said you'd be willing to pay a
    type designer to make the modifications for you. So why not contact the originator
    of the font you like and contract for the modifications you want to make? I think
    you'll find them to be open to the concept and pleasant to work with. But you
    have to pay them for their work.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 16:49:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My point is most people don't realize they're agreeing to any such thing,
    it's not really their fault, and sometimes their ignorance is being taken advantage
    of. And sometimes the people taking advantage ignore their own \"public domain\"
    cultural debt.\r\n\r\nLet me try this angle:\r\nWhat did you think of the iPhone's
    \"covert\" logging of location info?\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-13145562\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 17:07:25'
- author:
    name: gfrederickk
  body: Understood that pedestrian users don't read EULAs. But then those folks probably
    don't often consider modifying fonts. Folks that have knowledge enough to consider
    font modification can reasonably be expected to know what a EULA is and why we
    have them. Most chefs haven't read every line of their local health code, but
    they know not to scratch their ass with the spatula.
  created: '2012-07-02 17:34:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\"Creative\"</em>\r\n\r\nScrolling down the dictionary to noun:\r\n<blockquote>(Business
    / Marketing) a creative person, esp one who devises advertising campaigns</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    design community has a different understanding of what \u201Ccreative\u201D means
    than the standard dictionary adjective de\uFB01nition (which could apply to suits,
    to our chagrin), hence a face like Verdana, despite the innovations of its design
    process and functionality, will never be considered truly creative\u2014it looks
    too plain and corporate. Designers like to talk up utility, but at the end of
    the day it\u2019s a visual medium, and creative has to look creative to be creative.\r\n\r\nJeremy
    Tankard has designed many creative faces; Microsoft has published Corbel, not
    Fenland.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 17:41:16'
- author:
    name: gfrederickk
  body: "huxley,\r\n\r\nTo your original question -- I hesitate to answer. There are
    some tremendous foundries, but none that are the best option for all challenges.
    Each offers advantages -- quality of design, quality of function, preferred genre,
    voice, support, technical chops, customization options, price. The relative values
    depend on your needs. \r\n\r\nBest advice I can offer re searching for foundries:\r\n\r\n--
    Enjoy the ride. There's a lot to learn, and no end to it. Sounds like a bad thing,
    but it's not. \r\n-- Familiarize yourself with the foundries and designers out
    there. Study their typefaces. Study their approach and typical offerings.\r\n--
    Learn as much about font technology as you need (it's a rabbit hole). Enough to
    understand what you're asking for.\r\n-- Shop for designers and foundries (as
    you are), not fonts. Match sensibilities. Build relationships.\r\n-- Build your
    own opinions from an educated foundation."
  created: '2012-07-02 18:40:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Designers like to talk up utility, but at the end of the day it\u2019s a
    visual medium, and creative has to look creative to be creative.\r\n\r\n\"Creative\"
    wasn't one of Huxley's criteria for identifying the \"best\" foundry. I was responding
    to Frode's \"Technical, sure. Creative \u2026 umph.\" comment. Microsoft branded
    fonts, and the licensed fonts will never have the appeal of a boutique foundry's
    offerings, not because it's all utilitarian (Gabriola being a good example of
    a visually and technically creative typeface) but because of near-instant over-use
    by 500,000,000 users. \r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 19:33:36'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "That should\u2019ve been \u201Cumph \u2026 well \u2026 yeah \u2026 ok. There
    are some gems for sure! Well done!\u201D"
  created: '2012-07-02 19:34:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ':-) '
  created: '2012-07-02 21:50:46'
date: '2012-06-26 09:17:43'
title: Type Foundry Preferences

---
