---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Romneylogo_4687.jpg]\r\n\r\nIs it just
  me, or is the Romney for president logo weak, because the R is overbalanced to the
  right :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: '{{OMNEY'
  created: '2012-06-28 22:41:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Omney? Who's Omney?
  created: '2012-06-28 22:58:06'
- author:
    name: Hex80
  body: MONEY - believe in America
  created: '2012-06-28 23:25:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It clearly says \"<3 MONEY\".  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-28 23:25:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I like it: Romney is over 80% about MONEY and the rest is hollow '
  created: '2012-06-28 23:32:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Believe in America...because...it''s not real? '
  created: '2012-06-28 23:52:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And if he gets elected, or even just under 50% of the vote, what would that
    mean?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-29 00:08:22'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: lame.
  created: '2012-06-29 08:46:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Nobody on a type forum wants to complain about the overly tight and ligaturized
    EY?
  created: '2012-06-29 12:33:30'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: If the "EY" got spaced out, the tagline could be a bit longer. "Believe in
    Americans", perhaps. Or is that asking too much from your average redneck voter?
  created: '2012-06-29 12:46:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nike-roger-federer-wimbledon-2009-collection-1_3803.jpg]\r\nThis
    is a better implementation of the \u201CBifur R\u201D idea.\r\nBut of course,
    one expects good design from the Swiss\u2014even their democratic system is better
    designed than anybody else\u2019s: no president."
  created: '2012-06-29 13:02:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I don't think there's anything <em>seriously</em> wrong with the OMNEY part
    of the logo. Since the EY <em>is</em>  \"tight and ligaturized\", the O and M
    should also have been <em>kerned</em>, but that's a nitpick.\r\n\r\nInstead, the
    big problem with it is that the \"R\" logo doesn't really stand out <em>as</em>
    an R. One could look at it and initially not quite notice that the squiggle on
    the left is <em>supposed</em> to be an R.\r\n\r\nOf course, much about the logo
    is effectively designed. The R being striped red, white, and blue, with the slogan
    \"Believe in America\", clearly identifies him as a conservative politician but
    in a feel-good way.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-29 13:09:12'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Nitpicks aside, I think the logo is fine. No one would have any difficulty
    reading it as "Romney".
  created: '2012-06-29 14:52:18'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Since all we're doing is tossing out opinions here, I gotta side with Hrant
    on this one. It's all about the money, and this particular logo treatment is,
    quite frankly, a brilliant solution to saying precisely that, without actually
    saying so. In other words, it's a brilliant piece of linguistic legerdemain.\r\n\r\nThink
    about it: over the years, there have been several discussions about how humans
    appear to have an inbred ability to unscramble misspelled words and eke out the
    intended meaning. That's precisely what this logo does: the R is only suggested,
    so you read what's actually there: OMNEY. So, you say \u201CWhat the hell is OMNEY?
    That makes no sense. Obviously, someone was not paying attention when they spent
    God knows how much money putting this logo together. Because, when you rearrange
    the letters just ever so slightly\u2014just a tad, just a smidgen\u2014they spell
    MONEY. Now, MONEY makes sense!\u201D\r\n\r\nWhich means that this logo accomplishes
    <em>precisely</em> what it set out to do brilliantly: it's all about the money!
    And, hey: this Mitt guy\u2014he's knows his way around money. If it's all about
    the money, Mitt is your man..."
  created: '2012-06-29 15:13:19'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Speaking of Swiss politics, I'm reminded of Orson Well's comment (speaking
    as character Harry Lime) in the classic movie \"The Third Man\":\r\n\r\n\"In Italy,
    for thirty years under the Borgias, they had warfare, terror, murder and bloodshed,
    but they produced Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci and the Renaissance. In Switzerland,
    they had brotherly love, they had five hundred years of democracy and peace \u2013
    and what did that produce? The cuckoo clock.\"\r\n\r\nOrson's comment isn't factually
    correct, but it's a famous moment in the movie.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-29 16:23:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Hey, I''m not giving a political endorsement: I''m reading the freaking tea
    leaves. Or getting paranoid about mind control. Take your pick.'
  created: '2012-06-29 22:57:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@oldnick:\r\n<cite>If it's all about the money, Mitt is your man...</cite>\r\n\r\nDepends
    which way you want the money to be moved; towards, or away from, those who already
    have more than the average share of it."
  created: '2012-06-29 23:00:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\nI've corrected my post.\r\n\r\n@oldnick:\r\nWell, you may not
    have intended to make a political comment, but it seemed to me that what you wrote
    could be interpreted as such a comment, and one that was factually incorrect -
    Obama, and not Mitt, might be your man even if the election is about money for
    you, depending on where you want the money to go.\r\n\r\nBefore the 2008 election,
    some commentator dared to go on record saying the unthinkable: if a terrorist
    attack happened shortly before the election, this would boost John McCain's popularity,
    leading to his winning by a landslide.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, that's just about
    what <em>did</em> happen, except, of course, in reverse. Just before the election,
    <em>the stock market crashed</em>.\r\n\r\nHistorically, the Democratic party is
    identified with unionized labor, with protecting American jobs, with concern for
    the working class and the poor. Which is more popular than being identified with
    big business and the moneyed interests, even if it could be argued that favoring
    them is the \"rational\" way to make more jobs in the long term.\r\n\r\n(On the
    other hand, the Republicans are also identified with a vigorous foreign policy
    and with social conservatism. These things play better electorally: I'm surprised
    a Populist party hasn't risen up to offer Americans the \"best of both worlds\",
    or at least what they seem to really want.)\r\n\r\nGiven this, just as John McCain,
    who wasn't promising to pull out of Afghanistan and Iraq with the kind of haste
    that lost Vietnam, was seen as the better choice to confront al-Qaeda, Barack
    Obama, from the party of FDR, would have been seen as the better choice to keep
    a stock market crash from causing another Depression and vast human misery.\r\n\r\nMy
    conclusion from this was that America wasn't really \"ready\" for a black President
    - he got elected due to a \"perfect storm\", as it were - and so the Republicans
    could run just about anyone and win the next election.\r\n\r\nJust about. Not
    someone from the extreme lunatic fringe, though. Unfortunately, the Republicans
    seemed bent on doing just that - and now we have Mitt Romney, a moderate Republican
    who is currently doing his best to convince his party, that, no, really, he is
    from the lunatic fringe after all.\r\n\r\nBut, on the other hand, the committee
    system, which, through pork-barrel politics, strongly encourages Americans to
    re-elect incumbents to both houses of Congress, means that if Americans do re-elect
    Obama, he is unlikely to have filibuster-proof majorities in both houses of Congress.\r\n\r\nNormally,
    this would just mean that he would have to rule as a politician and not a dictator.
    Since today's Republican party has a policy of \"my way or the highway\", though,
    essentially nothing of importance can get done to address economic problems unless
    the Republicans can get the credit... which will be an argument for many to vote
    for Romney, even though such behavior should not be rewarded.\r\n\r\nI supported
    G. W. Bush's policies in the War on Terror, so I'm no left-wing radical, but the
    current behavior of the Republican party dismays me."
  created: '2012-06-29 23:16:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{Correction Addressed}'
  created: '2012-06-29 23:17:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Inspired by Jackson, John, and Hrant's comments, here is the real Romney
    logo:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RomneyMoney_5703.jpg]\r\n\r\nIf
    you can repost and make it go viral, it would be cool!\r\n\r\nHere's a direct
    link: http://therepublicon.blogspot.com/2012/07/real-romney-agenda.html\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 16:25:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More like:\r\nKEEP TAKING IT FROM THE POOR.\u2122\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 16:36:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That too. \r\n\r\nIn looking on the net for more examples of the logo, I
    ran across this comment from Iowaadguy: he pointed out that the R looks like red
    white and blue toothpaste\u2014which is one reason it looks so weak. I ended up
    redrawing the R, but I think I made the left side a little stronger, by mistake...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 18:05:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@quadibloc\u2014\r\n\r\nSo: do you feel better, getting all this stuff off
    your chest? Good.\r\n\r\nBecause, when I said I wasn't making a political endorsement,
    I actually meant it. But, you see things your way, I see things my way and, evidently,
    never the twain shall meet. But, hey: thanks for sharing your opinions."
  created: '2012-07-01 18:12:00'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "I wrote a blog post about this a while ago: http://edoctor.tumblr.com/post/4560064950/doctor-overanalyzes-the-mitt-romney-presidential\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    think it's pretty terrible. Trajan is just not the right choice here, having lost
    virtually all personality from overuse \u2014 and if it did still have a personality,
    is the Roman Empire really what you want to associate yourself with as a modern
    American presidential candidate? The E-Y ligature is arbitrary and unnecessary,
    and while the R is supposed to resemble a banner or a flag, it just ends up looking
    like the Aquafresh logo. Also the R crashes into the slogan."
  created: '2012-07-01 20:09:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Nobody on a type forum wants to complain about the overly tight
    and ligaturized EY?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou just did - thank you.  :-)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>is
    the Roman Empire really what you want to associate yourself with as a modern American
    presidential candidate?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell, <strong><em>hello?!</em></strong>\r\nAnd
    Trajan also says Hollywood movies! How do you think Reagan and Schwarzenegger
    got elected?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 20:33:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I thought to put this on Reddit, and at the moment it's #1 on the 'hot' list
    of political humor. And it has already got more hits than any of the analytical
    posts on my political blog. \r\n\r\n::learning about the internet::"
  created: '2012-07-01 20:41:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the E-Y ligature, they get points for trying. When I was reproducing it,
    I saw that they extended the lower arms on the E to fill the white space, and
    chopped the serif on the to E arm. The problem is that that made the E-Y too visually
    dense relative to the rest\u2014made worse by not thinning the top arm to compensate.\r\n\r\nBut
    as DrDoc says, the really big problem is the 'aquafresh' R...  \r\n\r\nI take
    that back. The *really* big problem is Mitt Romney. "
  created: '2012-07-01 20:47:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@DrDoc:\r\n<cite>is the Roman Empire really what you want to associate yourself
    with as a modern American presidential candidate?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it certainly
    is true that ancient Rome had its flaws. But for a while, it was a Republic instead
    of an Empire, thus inspiring the movie <em>Star Wars</em>... and serving as the
    basis for at least the forms of pretty much all the Western political systems.
    For example, the United States and Canada both still have a legislative house
    called a Senate."
  created: '2012-07-01 21:00:59'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I see this thread is more about us vs them, than it is about a lame logo.\r\n\r\nIn
    that case...\r\n\r\n'Obama care' is, from my perspective anyways, one of the greatest
    tragedies to happen against one the greatest nations of all times.\r\n\r\nSorry
    to inform you Americans that their greatness doesn't lie in the military nor does
    it lie within American wealth (as diminished as it may appear at the moment),
    nor does it in all of your amazing accomplishments. The greatness of America is
    to be found deep within each and every true American soul.\r\n\r\nAnd it is that
    soul of America which has been given the power - via your incredible Declaration
    of Independence -  to be Independent.  The single most wonderful attribute of
    American Independence is that each and every American citizen can pursue - AN
    IDEA - to its fullest.\r\n\r\nOK? That's it that's all. Nothing in America is
    of greater significance than that.  When a government can empower any single citizen
    to achieve their -IDEA - then amazing things can happen.\r\n\r\nYou say you want
    to diminish America? No probs, all you have to do is restrict the Independence
    of every single American citizen. Tax them, fine them, contain their accomplishments,
    confine their progress, force them into a corner where they ... have ... no ...
    choice!\r\n\r\nSounds easy enough - or is it? How do you diminish the soul of
    an Individual?\r\n\r\nSimple answer is that you can't. But you sure can try. And
    start by imposing restrictions ... 'Obama care' is one such restriction. Under
    'Obama care' in just four years those American citizens that have successfully
    lived the 'American Dream' - and choose not pay to the government what the government
    demands you pay for its 'Obama care' - you will be forced to pay a considerable
    fine, or be restricted by another tax. \r\n\r\nWhat is socialism at its core?
    Is it the government diminishing one citizen's gains for the benefit of another
    citizen of lesser accomplishment?\r\n\r\nAmerican Independence is being carved
    up slice-by-slice-by-slice. But I'll tell you this much, those American's who
    have striven for their - IDEA - to come to its fullest ... will move their hard
    fought gains elsewhere! \r\n\r\nAll those who occupy the 99% will left to feed
    off of one another. And therein lies the great American tragedy.\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-07-01 21:46:13'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Hmm. This does not strike me as funny, just cheap. Despite my opinion of the
    American right. National difference, perhaps? :)
  created: '2012-07-01 22:01:41'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "J.Montalbano, calling someone names tells me all I need to know about you
    ...dude. And if you ever get around to reading this entire thread you will surly
    see the other posts which really do bather on politically. And for your future
    reference my name is clearly listed in my bio - which you somehow you chose to
    overlook also. Stay cool J.\r\n\r\nfrode frank , another interesting element of
    the Romney logo is that clearly exhibits the characteristict of being too clever
    and perhaps also trying too hard. Why fashion the logo into the shape of continental
    America anyways?\r\n\r\nn. "
  created: '2012-07-01 22:20:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Frode, I did have more subtle versions in mind, but I figured that subtlety
    doesn't work that well on the internet. You get from 5Star what we are experiencing
    here in the US: completely hallucinatory arguments. \r\n\r\nThe individual mandate
    was a Republican idea, backed by Republicans for 20 years. The idea was to find
    a way to cover the uninsured while keeping a privately run, insurance-company
    based health care. \r\n\r\nUpon Obama backing it, Republican Senators who had
    sponsored bills with it, repeatedly, suddenly discovered that it was against freedom
    and started voting against it and screaming with outrage. \r\n\r\nThey didn't
    introduce any new arguments, they just flipped on a dime for political reasons.
    Now Justice John Roberts, the notoriously conservative Chief Justice of the supreme
    court specifically argued that the individual mandate was *not* an impingement
    on individual freedom, because it was just a tax penalty, and did not affect a
    person's choices other than that. \r\n\r\nRoberts was exactly right. And the act
    does not tell anyone which insurance to buy, which doctor to see, etc. It is largely
    a free-market system, with increased regulation to lower costs, and a subsidy
    to cover those left out in the current system. It is no way a 'government takeover
    of health care,' such as England's National Health Service\u2014which by the way
    works very well for half the price, and covers everyone. \r\n\r\nThe fact that
    the super-conservative Chief Justice argues that it's not a 'government takeover'
    will have no influence on people like 5Star, though. It's all slogans and hysteria.
    Reality has nothing to do with it. \r\n\r\nI've been posting reasoned arguments
    on my blog for a bit over a year an a half. This blunt-force unfunny satire has
    got more than double the hits in 6 hours than anything I've posted. Not good,
    but there is the reality we're dealing with here in the US.    "
  created: '2012-07-01 22:45:02'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "You don\u2019t have to scratch my itch, William :)"
  created: '2012-07-01 23:08:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And you want these people to vote for a leader. Pure tragicomedy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-01 23:25:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"'Obama care' is, from my perspective anyways, one of the greatest tragedies
    to happen against one the greatest nations of all times.\"\r\n\r\nI think your
    perspective is lacking historical context, understandings of economics, and a
    bad definition of the term 'socialism'. \r\n\r\nIf you're looking for socialized
    health care, that'd be every other 1st world country out there.\r\n\r\nObamacare
    isn't socialized health care. It's simply the only fiscally possible way to make
    sure everyone can buy private (that's right, private) health care from the private
    (again, nothing socialist here) insurance industry. \r\n\r\nIf you want to freak
    out about socialism, rant about the interstate highway system or something. "
  created: '2012-07-01 23:50:19'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> is the Roman Empire really what you want to associate yourself \r\n> with
    as a modern American presidential candidate?\r\n\r\nI don't think many people
    would look at that logo and think \"roman empire\". \r\n\r\nBut even if they did,
    neoclassic symbolism has been used by Democrats, too:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/columns_5927.jpg]"
  created: '2012-07-02 01:19:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In the United States, they passed a law that said that health insurance companies
    couldn't \"discriminate\" against people who were HIV-positive.\r\n\r\nSince insurance
    is a private agreement between two parties, and is therefore based on actual risk,
    this meant that it was no longer possible for an individual to purchase health
    insurance at a reasonable rate. Only employer health plans continued to exist.\r\n\r\nThe
    government brought in COBRA to allow people to keep their employee plans after
    they left their jobs.\r\n\r\nSo while employers and insurance companies are involved,
    individuals can't choose to pick their own health insurer, so effectively the
    situation is already not much different from state-run medicare, except for being
    messier and more complicated."
  created: '2012-07-02 01:33:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Quadibloc, that's in the right direction, but not completely accurate. If
    you have the money, in the US you can buy whatever health insurance or health
    care you want. That is 'freedom' in the Conservative's book\u2014price never enters\u2014and
    that won't change under Obamacare. \r\n\r\nIf the issue for Conservatives were
    the practical constraints of price, then the first thing they should be complaining
    about are the over 30 million who are priced out of insurance, or denied insurance
    at reasonable prices because of preexisting conditions. But Republican minority
    leader of the Senate Mitch McConnell said today \"that's not the issue,\" in refusing
    to answer what the Republicans would do about the 30 plus million.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    the reality is that there all kinds of practical constraints in a very messy system,
    if you can even call it that. It starts with the mandate that all hospitals have
    to provide care, whether or not people can pay, and extends to half of health
    expenditures in the country I believe being through medicare, and most insurance
    (irrationally) being through employers. By the way medicare part B is purchased
    through insurance companies, so it is a hybrid system. \r\n\r\nBut now we are
    talking reality. When you start getting real\u2014unlike 5Star or Mitch McConnell\u2014then
    you realize that only a heavily regulated or government-owned system can supply
    health care to all affordably. That is what all industrialized countries except
    us do, much cheaper and generally with good results. If we were resolved to do
    it, instead of squabbling constantly with fantasy ideological arguments, we could
    do it very well.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 03:59:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That is what all industrialized countries except us do\"\r\n\r\nThough
    that's not entirely true, either. We actually *do* provide that in USA. The VA
    system. And it works rather well. ;)\r\n\r\nThat's what I find hardest to accept
    in this 'debate' we've been having for so long. There are so many documented examples
    of how single payer systems work better than what we currently have. I wish data
    was used by those making the decisions. :/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 04:34:37'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Just for the heck of it, I'm going to try to find the time over the next
    few days to look at previous Presidential Candidate Logos. To see if anything,
    anything compares in design stupidity.\r\n\r\nRomney's has got to be the worst.
    Hudson's comment says it all....\r\nWho is OMNEY? And why is OMNEY prefaced with
    two weird parens?\r\n\r\nI'm delighted especially  because it makes OMNEY a less
    effective candidate than he already is.\r\nAnd having it morph into MONEY with
    such little effort, is like an extra present. An Easter Egg.\r\n \r\nI mean, what
    tea party moron signed off on this piece of sh-t?"
  created: '2012-07-02 04:49:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The only thing I can think of with the R is that they were aiming for a flag
    waving? \r\n\r\nIt feels like they maybe had to 'committee it down' to the least
    offensive generic end result .\r\n\r\n(Or, the alternate theory is that some young
    intern couldn't help but make the 'money' connection and is LOLing all the way...)"
  created: '2012-07-02 04:54:58'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "aluminum >I wish data was used by those making the decisions. :/\r\n\r\nYep.
    To many levels are involved in too many ways, from Federal > State > local hospitals,
    local clinics ...and on it goes. Fix all of that waste in the system first before
    the citizens are once again asked to do the heavy lifting.\r\nAnd for the uneducated
    opinions such as Berkson's \"...and did not affect a person's choices other than
    that. \" , there in lies yet another hustle. The test will come when many folks
    simply don't pay the fine and refuse to pay another Obama tax on their income.
    \ How many more times will Obama chip any at someone's ability to earn a decent
    income? You're penalized for earning to much - what is it over 250k? - you're
    penalized if you don't buy into Obama care - and you're penalized when ... and
    on it goes.\r\n\r\nTry fixing the system first. Show some leadership with solutions
    that streamline the system. \r\n\r\nRichard Fink , Obama endorsing Shep's hope
    poster was to me the best disappointment ever! One hustler endorsing another!
    The words HYPE and HOPE are so similar ain't they? Anyways, this Romney logo is
    intersting in another way. I scaled it to a map of continental USA and the Y's
    right hand serif points to Massachusetts (or there abouts depending on how it
    is scaled),  home of the Tea Party movement that fought against unfair taxation
    so long ago...  \r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 06:29:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Try fixing the system first.\"\r\n\r\nThe fix is a single payer system.
    Folks like you didn't want it for some reason. So this is the compromise. It's
    also pretty much what Romney did in MA. Both presidential nominees came to the
    same conclusion. \r\n\r\nNot sure why that makes it the biggest tragedy ever to
    happen. Seems that keeping the citizens of a nation healthy is hardly a tragedy.
    \r\n\r\nThis logo, on the other hand, TRAGIC! (No, not really. It's not THAT bad...)"
  created: '2012-07-02 06:56:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I generally avoid political discussions. But I couldn\u2019t bypass this
    irony:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Massachusetts [.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. ] home of the Tea Party
    movement that fought against unfair taxation so long ago... </blockquote>\r\n\r\n.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
    and where, in 2006, governor Romney passed the Massachusetts Healthcare Reform
    law, complete with individual insurance mandate. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s true. I live
    here. I know. I was in violation of the law for two years, even though I had an
    individual catastrophic health insurance policy (didn\u2019t meet the state minimum
    requirements). Finally the state caught up to me and I had to drop my long-standing
    policy and purchase a new one that cost \u22485\xD7 as much.\r\n\r\nJust saying.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 13:10:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Massachusetts [. . . ] home of the Tea Party movement that fought against
    unfair taxation so long ago... \"\r\n\r\nThis is a Palin quote from right before
    Revere warned the British? ;)\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 15:20:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">And for the uneducated opinions such as Berkson's \"...and did not affect
    a person's choices other than that. \" \r\n\r\nMy comment was explicitly about
    the individual mandate. You should add Chief Justice John Roberts to your 'uneducated'
    list, as that was his argument upholding the individual mandate: \"Congress\u2019s
    authority under the taxing power is limited to requiring an individual to pay
    money into the Federal Treasury, no more. If a tax is properly paid, the Government
    has no power to compel or punish individuals subject to it.\"\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 15:41:34'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "aluminum, I'm all for a single payer system - that's not my point. My point
    is that if I want to opt out of health insurance I can do so without penalty.
    It's the penalty part of Obama care that infringes on civil liberty.  That is
    what defines an American - the right to say no or yes - and not to be forced nor
    penalized. Of all the Rep's candidates Ron Paul is/was the most awesome by a country
    mile.\r\n\r\ndberlow, speaking of Palin ... 'How's that hopey, changey stuff working
    out?' \r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n \r\n "
  created: '2012-07-02 19:13:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Taxes aren't civil liberty infringements. That's how modern societies work.
    Again, I have to ask why you aren't railing against the interstate highway system
    if your beef is taxes. ;)\r\n\r\nAnyways, glad to hear you're for a single payer
    system. But since the GOP would never allow this, this is the best compromise
    we can come up with. It's a compromise, not a civil rights infringement nor tragedy
    of epic proportions. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 19:20:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "So, 5Star, you must think that parking tickets are an outrageous attack on
    liberty, fundamentally against the sacred principles of the Declaration of Independence.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-02 21:34:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"That is what defines an American - the right to say no or yes - and not
    to be forced nor penalized.\"\r\n\r\nWhat defines an American is their passport.
    Or, are you going to give us a list of nationalities well known for wanting no
    say, who also enjoy being forced to pay penalties for nothing?\r\n\r\nWere you
    old enough for the draft? Do you pay Social Security? Have you ever watched NFL
    Football? "
  created: '2012-07-02 21:59:47'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> why you aren't railing against the interstate highway \r\n> system if your
    beef is taxes\r\n\r\nThat might not be the best example to use, as interstate
    highways are paid mostly by taxes on gas. In other words, they are paid by people
    who use the highways. \r\n\r\nA single-payer system would be funded by taxes paid
    by even those in good health who don't incur any medical bills. \r\n\r\nI'm not
    taking a position on it pro or con, I'm just saying it's not the same situation."
  created: '2012-07-02 22:30:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "True, though obviously no example is great since taxes are incredibly complex...just
    as health care is. It's hard to say a few platitudes spoken by a presidential
    candidate will magically fix things. (That said, 90% of our household driving
    is not done on the interstate)\r\n\r\nBut, in general: taxes are what pays for
    a society to function. Rarely will you find a citizen that agrees with 100% of
    their tax spending. Picking one particular tax to declare as being biggest tragedy
    to fall upon our nation is absurd on so many levels. ;)"
  created: '2012-07-02 23:11:55'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "aluminum, tax penalty for not buying into Obama care is an uncivil violation.\r\n\r\nOn
    your next tax return form I hope you see a section to opt out of Obama care. Simple
    enough right? Just put your check mark in the >>> No <<<  box. No tax penalty,
    no forced purchase of health insurance needed - just check the box to opt out
    of Obama care. Simple enough - right?\r\n\r\nMy health is my concern - not yours,
    and certainly not the Government's concern either. How far into your private personal
    life do you want the government to conduct your affairs - and to leave you with
    no choice? Huh?\r\n\r\ndberlow, passport to what? A ton of countries all have
    passports. You really think America is just like any other. You must belong to
    the beaten generation.\r\n\r\n\r\nn. "
  created: '2012-07-04 08:17:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"How far into your private personal life do you want the government to conduct
    your affairs\"\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you believe Obamacare is. "
  created: '2012-07-06 01:30:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "5star - Yo troll, in spite of the nonsense you're being fed - and let's face
    it, you're just regurgitating some crap you read or heard somewhere - the way
    the government goes about funding the healthcare bill is not some great constitutional
    issue. They could have structured it many other ways, and the same money would
    still be collected and spent. Railing about the manner in which the tax is collected
    and coverage provided is a cover for not wanting the government involved in health
    care at all.  What the right wants, ultimately, is an end to Medicare as well.\r\nAre
    you against Medicare? I'm just curious.  I'm curious about that and what the hell
    any of what you've said has got to do with Romney's dumb logo."
  created: '2012-07-06 03:48:17'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Richard Fink - you should actually read my posts before showing yourself
    up as mindless. At least then you would have something original to say ...sigh.
    Go back Dick, go back and read how I tried to keep my posts ending on the point
    of Romney's lame logo. \r\n\r\nI'll wait here while you come up with some sort
    of an apology...\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-07-06 05:04:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@aluminum:\r\n<cite>Taxes aren't civil liberty infringements.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I agree with you, that is a matter of opinion, not fact.\r\nAfter all, in <em>abstract
    principle</em>, the claim that for a democratic majority to vote to tax everyone,
    including a minority of one who doesn't agree to the idea of having a tax, is
    equivalent to ten bullies \"democratically\" deciding they can bully someone into
    handing over his wallet... cannot be immediately and trivially refuted.\r\nIn
    practice, of course, despite governments having the power to tax and conscript,
    we in the democratic world are still very free compared to the people in places
    like Stalin's Russia or Hitler's Germany.\r\nAnd the efforts it took to prevent
    those countries from conquering us obviously <em>required</em> the world's democratic
    countries being able to tax and conscript."
  created: '2012-07-06 23:02:59'
- author:
    name: LogoCrush
    picture: 125201
  body: The R in the logo actually reminds me of pepsi for some reason ;)
  created: '2012-07-07 00:15:15'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-08-04 01:49:57'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-08-04 01:50:26'
date: '2012-06-28 21:37:09'
node_type: forum
title: Romney Logo

---
