---
author:
  name: inkexit
body: "Type design is hard.  I laugh at myself about it.  How could it possibly be
  so hard? An A is an A is an A.  Plus, I've been making these forms since I was 5
  years old. How can this be so hard?\r\n\r\nIt's amazing how fast you can tell if
  a typeface is great or not as well.  We may disagree between eachother about which
  ones are best, but it takes no scientific investigation to decide if a typeface
  is beautiful or not.  Your mind becomes made up about this before you can even read
  the words.  It's pretty much instant.\r\n\r\nMaking a competent typeface is not
  that hard.  At least that's what I have found.  You know what I mean by competent,
  something that is skilfully done, well executed, but yet somehow lacking that 'thing'
  that makes the best faces sing.  The most common adjective for a competent face
  would be -- boring.  It works, it's legible, it holds true to itself, but it isn't
  interesting, it isn't overtly attractive.  It is boring.  Bland.\r\n\r\nWhat does
  one have to do to take a competent face an make it beautiful?  why is one face merely
  competent and another is mind jarringly beautiful?  What is this ungraspable thing
  that makes a typeface sing?  I wonder if some of the more experienced designers
  here would share their thoughts on this."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes.\r\n\r\nBut what kind of beauty are you talking about? If you mean the
    aesthetic kind, to me that's boring.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-09 23:43:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "And beautiful faces are not the best text faces. \r\n\r\nWhat I look for
    in a typeface is to see nuanced design, using tricks I've not seen before, where
    every tiny decision makes sense and fits with everything else. What else? Originality
    of thinking/concept and of execution/aesthetics. Accomplished point placement,
    assured curves. Absolutely regular spacing. Consistency, harmony, tension.\r\n\r\n>Making
    a competent typeface is not that hard.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't agree, but maybe we have
    different ideas of what constitutes a 'competent typeface'."
  created: '2012-07-10 00:27:22'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "This is an example of what I'm talking about.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comp_4586.png]\r\n\r\nIt
    works, it's very legible, blah blah blah blah.  There's just something missing
    from it.  Something that would take it from being competent to being truly great.
    \ But, what is that something?"
  created: '2012-07-10 01:20:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, that's not remotely \"competent\" to begin with.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-10 01:25:49'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: No? What makes you feel that way?
  created: '2012-07-10 01:36:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: In that example, there are a number of basic errors. Curves (and straight
    sections!) are malformed. Strokes and terminals are inconsistent. There are no
    optical corrections at joins. Proportions between letters are not regular. Heights
    and widths are all over the place. Spacing is uneven. In short, it hasn't had
    enough time spent on it, it doesn't show any sensitivity to letterforms. I don't
    think there's a way to make this design 'great', as it doesn't demonstrate expertise
    or originality.
  created: '2012-07-10 01:39:13'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Bendy, while all you post is quite correct, these critiques are all technical,
    and can be fixed in a non-artistic, mechanical way.  To me personally, even if
    it was adjusted optically, heights and widths adjusted, etc etc, it still wouldn't
    really sing.  This has to do with something at a much more base level, and that's
    what I'm chasing after. That's what I'm trying to figure out. That's what so bedeviling,
    and that's what I'm hoping to learn more about by posting here.\r\n\r\nBut please
    don't get it twisted, as they say, I appreciate your comments nonetheless. Thank
    you."
  created: '2012-07-10 01:54:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Design critiques are necessarily rational, but attempting to solve design
    problems through a mechanical approach is likely not to produce better results
    than what appears above. That''s why originality or artfulness come into play,
    as I intended to mean above. '
  created: '2012-07-10 02:15:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Look, Ryan, there really isn''t a quality of typeface design that can be
    considered independent of all those things you dismiss as what can be ''mechanically
    solved''. You can''t even begin to approach the qualities of a good typeface,
    a type that sets and reads well and that attracts the reader, without solving
    those basic issues of proportion, weight and optical refinement. It is only through
    those qualities that a type has any chance of ''singing'': there is no song independent
    of them.'
  created: '2012-07-10 04:23:20'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "In short, expertise is competence in greater supply. And <em>everything</em>
    about letterforms is a product of collective human perception, psychology, and
    culture, and as such cannot be reduced to a matter of simple math without compromising
    the effect.\r\n\r\nThere is no sharp line between craft and creativity. Nobody
    who asks \"where do good ideas come from\" has ever gotten a satisfactory answer,
    which is almost entirely a reflection on the inadequate nature of the question."
  created: '2012-07-10 05:26:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I don\u2019t have the time now, but my guess is an optically corrected, width-revised
    and evenly spaced, version of the design above could highlight some of the things
    that makes typefaces \u201Csing\u201D. "
  created: '2012-07-10 09:48:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Paraphrasing \"Huit th\xE8ses pour (ou contre ?) une semiologie de la peinture\"
    (Hubert Damisch): \r\n<em>[...] le travail [...] sur le signifiant, [...] producteur
    d'une plus-value</em>.\r\n\r\nThe \"travail sur le signifiant\" is done at the
    optical-grammatical tuning level of co-ordinating proportion, weight, contrast
    and construction, and the \"plus-value\" -- achieved through  individuation, or
    adding nuance, on all these dimensions (of proportion, weight, contrast and construction
    -- is gestural-atmospheric. Where I use<em> gestural-atmospheri</em>c and talk
    of gestural-atmospheric force or singularity, others use <em>personality</em>.
    The term \"atmospheric\" can be found in Ovinck, with reference to type, and the
    term \"gestural\" in Henk Krijger with refernce to type and typography. For example
    the assertiveness of Quadraat and the legendary Jan Van Krimpen restraint in type
    design are gestural-atmospheric qualities.\r\n\r\nWhen choosing a typeface for
    a job, gestural-atmospheric identity (depending on the subject matter) and optical-grammatical
    integrity (co-ordinate with the vehicle) are my prime reference or decision axis.
    \r\n\r\nIt takes well-resolved optical-grammatical integrity and real gestural
    atmospheric distinctiveness, singularity and clarity for a type to sing. The \"travail\"
    (work) on the signifying components (letters) is at the heart of it."
  created: '2012-07-10 13:47:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good stuff guys.\r\n\r\nRyan, even if I pretend that there can be a real
    separation between technique and spirit, and I imagine simply addressing the former,
    I can't put my finger no what to subsequently add to make it \"special\". There's
    no formula, no patch - it has to come from within. Nevermind that there's no universal
    \"special\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-10 15:24:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Whatever may make a typeface "sing" is not an object like vocal chords.  Vocal
    chords make sounds.  Some people can make these sounds become song.  They do this
    with a combination of natural talent and hard work.  Those with the lesser amount
    of talent may need to greatly increase the amount of work. If you are looking
    for an ingredient to identify and quantify and concoct as a magic potion, join
    those who seek the holy grail in a lifelong search to no avail.  If you want to
    design type, just do the work and then do it again and again and again.  If you
    work hard enough, you may begin to hear a very, very faint melody.
  created: '2012-07-10 15:29:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Although I think Chris is extending the singing metaphor a bit far, his comments
    suggest to me a counter question to Ryan: what constitutes ''song'' in typography?
    Rather than asking what quality or qualities cause a typeface to sing, ask what
    the song sounds like.'
  created: '2012-07-10 18:49:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This reminds me of the quote from Frederic W. Goudy which I referenced in
    another thread:\r\n\r\n\"If there were an individual, readily recognized quality
    or characteristic which the type designer could incorporate in drawings that would
    make any one type more beautiful, legible, or distinguished than another, it is
    obvious that only type of that kind would be designed.\"\r\n\r\nYes, there are
    no cheats when it comes to achieving excellence - in a typeface, in music, in
    TV or movies, in other fields. Even when you do everything right, the result isn't
    guaranteed to catch the public fancy."
  created: '2012-07-11 02:12:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Being' on an album cover.
  created: '2012-07-11 10:01:45'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "What makes a typeface sing?\r\n\r\nWell, among all the available voices,
    it's probably the typeface\u2019s tenor, I suppose.\r\n\r\nBut, if you\u2019re
    tone-deaf, it might not sing on key\u2026"
  created: '2012-07-11 19:38:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: So John, how far can I extend a metaphor before it stops singing?  ;-)
  created: '2012-07-11 21:30:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Even when it\u2019s over, the fat lady is still going strong."
  created: '2012-07-11 22:00:01'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "This has been a great conversation!\r\n\r\nI'm moving my design over to the
    critique section.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/94633\r\n "
  created: '2012-07-11 23:04:20'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Its resonance with the user.
  created: '2012-07-12 19:43:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It\u2019s the quality of drawing.\r\nFor instance, that\u2019s what distinguishes
    one revival of old metal faces from another.\r\nOr, in the case of a typeface
    like Ed Benguiat\u2019s Souvenir, it\u2019s what takes a typeface with a dif\uFB01cult
    concept that doesn\u2019t sing much, and gives it a strong voice.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-13 15:17:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Rather than asking what quality or qualities cause a typeface to sing,
    ask what the song sounds like.\"\r\n\r\nIt sounds like one Vandercook clapping
    ;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letterpress-vandercook-4_3472.jpg]"
  created: '2012-07-13 15:27:45'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "Ryan,\r\nIts the fine details that make a typeface. Anybody can make a circle
    but add shading and highlights to it makes it stand out. Same with type. By getting
    your proportions and weights right and to where everything rhythmically flows
    is one of the keys to making your type less boring. Not sure if any of this made
    sense. "
  created: '2012-07-13 16:40:14'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "Ryan, when you say, <i>\"It works, it's very legible, blah blah blah blah\"</i>
    -- well, its the blah blah blah that is just blah blah blah for you that makes
    this overall, blah. There is 'just something' missing from it, and that thing
    is \"taking care of all the details,\" the details which you have glossed over
    :-) Ben named some of the details, surely there are many kinds of details to consider.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I would suggest is to delete most of the glyphs you have and refine a core set
    of 'key shape' glyphs to a very high standard of 'fit and finish.' The lowercase
    \"adhesion\" is used at the University of Reading, and I suggest you do your own
    analysis of 'key shapes' that are particular to your design. \r\n\r\nGiven a limited
    character set, you can still test a typeface's typesetting performance using a
    text generator tool - like http://www.adhesiontext.com or http://justanotherfoundry.com/generator.
    When and only when you think you have something that is singing, should you build
    out the character set -- because writing is systematic, the tune will carry over."
  created: '2012-07-15 18:23:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Good suggestions Dave, although my own approach is a little different, and
    perhaps better suited to ''singiness''. The test word ''adhesion'' is quite good
    for revealing the characteristics of a design, but I don''t tackle the a, e or
    s until I have first established the rhythm of two faux words: nihilim and millioon.
    [The latter was used by my first typography instructor when manually kerning headlines:
    he would first kern the faux word millioon at the intended size, print it, tape
    it to the top of his monitor and use it as a visual reference when spacing the
    headline.] I really like nihilim because it is easy to produce and gives a good
    indication of harmony across some fundamental shapes and their spacing. If that
    faux word sings, there is a good chance that you''ll be able to make the rest
    of the design join the chorus.'
  created: '2012-07-15 19:26:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I personally don't get how not having a descender is OK.\r\n\r\nClearly \"hp\"
    is best place to start.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-15 19:59:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I don't know Hrant, perhaps hhp is better than just hp ;-)
  created: '2012-07-15 21:20:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I personally don't get how not having a descender is OK.\r\n\r\nI think
    it could be to do with character frequencies. /adhesion/ is used as it contains
    the most common letters so can build many words quickly. I usually add /trlu/
    as they're easy and permit more possibilities. Descending letters are less frequent
    in English; the other thing is they're all different shapes, so take more time
    to draw. Clearly for Armenian you'd want to start with ascenders and descenders,
    as those are the more active zones."
  created: '2012-07-15 23:04:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Frequency is certainly highly important*, as is mixing in a good spectrum
    of shapes, but determining a font's vertical proportions is a key early step so
    including a single descending letter (probably \"p\") seems important. So what
    about \"aphesion\".  :-)\r\n\r\n* http://themicrofoundry.com/image/s_rome1-4.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-15 23:48:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: In the Latin script, the depth of descenders is something to be considered
    in proportion to what is happening above the baseline, which is more complex and
    has a far greater overall impact on the typeface, involving as it does as least
    two different strongly information bearing zones (x-height, cap height and possible
    independent ascender height). The only factor that in any way complicates the
    descender depth is the density of the g, and even then the norm is for that density
    to be optically adjusted to fit the letter within proportions that look balanced
    to the (generally slightly longer) ascender height. So while I agree that determining
    a type's vertical proportions is a key step, the role of descenders within that
    determination is relatively minor, and overall the determination of horizontal
    proportions in the x-height and cap height is massively more important.
  created: '2012-07-16 04:07:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think in the overall/\"long-term\" texture of a setting the descenders
    actually play a bigger role than that, especially for short measures (read: minimal
    leading). And although I myself do tend to be predictable in terms of the relationship
    between ascenders and descenders, this is clearly not true in the aggregate of
    all designers. For example when looking at Ruse (by Gerrit Noordzij) noticing
    that the descenders are fully equal to the ascenders is quite important I think.\r\n\r\n>
    (x-height, cap height and possible independent ascender height)\r\n\r\nWell, \"adhesion\"
    doesn't have a cap either. BTW, to me descenders are more important than caps.\r\n\r\nBut
    you're right about the \"g\" of course (and it's something I myself have brought
    up often). So \"aghesion\" it is.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-16 04:55:55'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "I was just writing up my view on this topic at the weekend for the www.craftingtype.com
    workshop's blog at http://workturn.tumblr.com and the below is taken mostly from
    what I wrote :-)\r\n\r\nnihilim and millioon! A tasty morsel of knowledge there!
    haha :-)\r\n\r\nI agree that adhesion is not, in fact, what I personally recommend.
    I just note that's what Reading used when I was there. As I said above, I think
    a type designer should do their own analysis of 'key shapes' that are particular
    to their design, to figure out which should be done first to establish parameters
    of the shape system, and which should be done after to follow the parameters already
    defined. \r\n\r\nSo, looking at nihilim and millioon, long words of few characters:
    n i h l m o\r\n\r\nI would say that the first one to draw is the o, and the n.
    \r\n\r\nThe first letter to draw is the \u2018o.\u2019 This lowercase letters
    is at the heart of the European \u2018latin\u2019 writing system, containing the
    \u201CDNA\u201D for everything else. The \u2018o\u2019 establishes the most fundamental
    proportion, of width to height. Since its shape is pure curve, you can clearly
    imagine the pen or writing tool used to make this shape - how fast it was used,
    what kind of nib and ink it had - and see the variation between thick and thin
    pen strokes. These attributes of the mark-marking tool will inform the drawing
    of every shape.\r\n\r\nThe second letter to draw is the \u2018n,\u2019 and the
    writing tool informs the way the arch joins the left stem to the right stem, and
    gives the two stems an equal width.\r\n\r\nWith these two together in a row of
    repeating letters, a clear horizontal rhythm between the black forms and the white
    counter forms emerges. The inter-letter spacing of these two is symmetrical, and
    harmonises easily with the large white interior shapes (or \u201Ccounters.\u201D)\r\n\r\nSo
    with just these two, you can prototype the basic rhythm of text.\r\n\r\nWith them
    in place, you can easily build out the rest of the characters in Johns words if
    you wish - h and l, especially if the arch and right stem is drawn as a seperate
    bezier contour - are very easy, no more drawing required. Just move the left stem
    stroke entry up, and for l remove the right contour. For the i just remove that
    right contour and add a dot. The 'm' is a little more complicated because you
    can't just copy and paste the arch, it needs fiddling to join in a way that looks
    right. Then you can set up the left and and right bearings for all of those the
    same as the 'n,' and see if you hear a tune. \r\n\r\nLooking at words like nihilim
    and millioon in the metrics window is useful until you do; but its a small step
    from there to pop them into a text generator, and set a large amount of text to
    see the effect in a textblock.\r\n\r\nBut actually, I wouldn't recommend building
    out those characters, because they are so similar. If you decide to radically
    change something in the n, you have to go and redo all that. And probably when
    you move on to less similar, more different forms, you'll want to harmonise what
    you settle on for those with the curves in these initial letters. My next suggestion?
    The 'two story' a. Its neck curve at the top and belly curve at the bottom are
    sure to have an impact on the 'n' (and the rest, if you made 'em.)"
  created: '2012-07-16 18:02:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very good advice... for a text face.\r\n\r\nFor a display face I would say
    start with things like the \"a\" and \"g\", because nobody will spend time gawking
    at an \"o\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-16 20:43:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: While I recall beginning the design of Gabriola with the lowercase a, it needs
    to be borne in mind that one can't finalise that letter -- or any others -- until
    the harmonic proportions of n and o and their spacing are worked out. So for a
    display face I recommend working up some characteristic shapes that will give
    the face its flavour and them setting them aside while one concentrates on the
    foundation.
  created: '2012-07-16 22:24:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave, I tend to do <em>i n o</em> first, and my first test word is, hence,
    'onion'. Only fairly recently did I remenber that 'onion' was also the practice
    word my mother's calligraphy teachers had used to introduce Johnston's foundational
    hand.\r\n\r\nI suspect my inclusion of the lowercase <em>i</em> in this initial
    set explains why my dots tend to echo the outer shape of the <em>o</em> so clearly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shelterblack_4249.png]"
  created: '2012-07-16 22:34:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>until the harmonic proportions of n and o and their spacing are
    worked out.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCertainly things are more iterative than that.
    Especially in a display face (but really to some extent even in a text face) something
    like the \"a\" can often affect what even the \"n\" and \"o\" end up looking like.
    No single letter is the boss.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-17 00:15:55'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "hhp: I think we 3 are all in agreement here :)\r\n\r\njh: o n i... hmm, I
    like the idea that the i presents the opportunity to repeat the o shape, and thus
    immediately exercise shape systematization thinking in the design process, so
    I now present my current thinking on what to draw first (for, as Hrant said, a
    text type)\r\n\r\no n i a e s H O A R g k w WM 83"
  created: '2012-07-17 01:15:17'
date: '2012-07-09 18:06:12'
title: What makes a typeface 'sing?'

---
