---
author:
  name: zeno333
body: "As a kid and teenager in the 60s and 70s,  I went to a gothic architecture
  church that made the church bulletin using what today is a Blackletter typeface
  called \"Linotext\". That got me hooked :) :) back then the church printed the bulletins
  on their own small typesetting machine...Looking back i wish I had a look at that
  machine....I just remember being told that they were made there. That church no
  longer makes that style of bulletin. The very top of the cover of the bulletin with
  the church's name, was a Blackletter type that is different than Linotext is now
  for the first letter of each word of the church's name, but the rest of the bulletin
  used Linotext. For an image of the church bulletin go to....\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/zeno3333333/5736579584/sizes/l/in/photostream/"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That our* C64 could, but didn't, do Armenian.\r\n\r\n* My older brother was
    instrumental.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-25 22:43:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Zeno,\r\nI grew up in Pittsburgh and lived there from 1944 through 1976.
    \ I passed that building many times."
  created: '2012-07-25 23:28:09'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: dezcom,cool...I was in Penn Hills....Too bad their bulletin is just plain
    now, nothing special at all.
  created: '2012-07-26 00:07:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Zeno,\r\nI grew up on the North Side and later lived in Squirrel Hill.\r\n\r\nProbably
    there was a parishioner in that church who was a printer.  After he died, no body
    knew how to do the work.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-26 05:41:07'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Squirrel Hill - really?? A hill named after a furry rodent? Let me guess,
    peanut butter was the 'currency' of choice???\r\n\r\nn. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Actually, bagels were the better choice.
    created: '2012-07-26 13:29:43'
  created: '2012-07-26 07:42:49'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Not cinnamon rolls? Oh, well... I guess it's just us heathen Norse types
    that like cinnamon.\r\n\r\nHennyway, I think it was a pack of URW faces that came
    with a now-forgotten app; a magazine freebie, as I recall. I had recently bought
    a Windows box and, IIRC, Lotus Ami Pro."
  created: '2012-07-26 13:45:34'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: My high school newspaper sent our typewritten copy to a printer to be typeset
    (on the Linotype, I assume). As a reporter and features editor, I had to learn
    copyfitting, and how to spec headline type. Around the same time I bought some
    sheets of transfer lettering I found in a hobby shop and had some fun fooling
    around with them (Hellenic Wide was a favorite). But those were just gateway drugs,
    making me all too susceptible when I went to Cornell and took a class with Prof.
    Peter Kahn, who had a little workshop tucked away in Uris Library, with a Vandercook
    and some cases of type. I did a very little bit of very bad letterpress printing,
    but I had the typography bug for life.
  created: '2012-07-26 14:11:26'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "Sign Painting!\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-26 15:46:09'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: Dezcom....Each Sunday after we left that church in downtown Pittsburgh, we
    would go to a bagel shop on Murray Av in Squirrel Hill called "Bagel Land"....I
    hear it's gone now....They were sooo good!
  created: '2012-07-26 20:14:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Bagel shmagel. I have the classic bagel-cutting scar on my left hand, as
    pointed out to me by a Jewish friend, but in fact I got it while cutting an avocado:
    I''d just sharpened my knife, and it went straight through the big seed and into
    my hand.'
  created: '2012-07-26 21:06:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Wow. If I ever need a kitchen knife I'll borrow yours, John. I'll go somewhere
    else for guacamole though.
  created: '2012-07-26 23:13:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You should see his butifarra negra recipe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-26 23:27:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Zeno,\r\nThe official name was \"New York Bagel land\" and it made the finest
    water bagels this side of NYC.  I used to go there early on Sunday morning and
    get them hot.  I lived 3 blocks down Murray so they were still hot when I got
    home.  Now they are gone and so are all the other dozen independent bagel places
    there.  Now, only the chains are there."
  created: '2012-07-27 00:04:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'I can remember noticing the type in the schoolbooks (Century Schoolbook)
    when I was learning to read and on alphabet cards (seems like it was Futura in
    my memory). '
  created: '2012-07-27 01:20:09'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "I think that could have been <a href=\"http://paratype.com/pstore/fonts/Bannikova.htm\">Bannikova
    Roman</a>, used for the headlines in\u2026 <em><a href=\"http://files.myopera.com/samaccat/albums/4020462/novgorod%20pravda.JPG\">Novgorodskaya
    Pravda</a></em>. \r\n\r\nAnd for sure that was Goudy Old Style. I noticed how
    beautiful the title of an American art book looked. It was <em>Masterpieces of
    Painting from the National Gallery of Art</em> (Huntingdon Cairns, John Walker,
    ed. Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1944). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1944_Natl_Gallery_5796.jpg]\r\n\r\nLater
    I learned that the typeface that caught my eye was Goudy Old Style, created by
    an American designer Frederic W. Goudy, and much later that the book was among
    the winners of the <a href=\"http://designarchives.aiga.org/#/entries/%2Bid%3A18486/_/detail/relevance/asc/0/7/18486/masterpieces-of-painting-from-the-national-gallery-of-art/1\">Fifty
    Books of the Year</a> competition held annually by AIGA. \r\n\r\nI tried to copy
    those letterforms, as closely as I was able to. I even ruined the jacket of that
    book by tracing the cap- and the baselines, and marking the horizontal boundaries
    of the letters.\r\n\r\nThe year was, probably, 1958.\r\n\r\nNow back to the main
    subject. You know that <a href=\"http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/01/27/hh-bagels-evicted-from-la_n_1236262.html\">H&H
    Bagels</a>, New York\u2019s best bagel bakery, is no more?!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: NO!!! Maxim, say it isn't so!
    created: '2012-07-27 02:54:47'
  created: '2012-07-27 01:25:24'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: dezcom, after church we would get 2 dozen from "New York Bagel Land" and before
    we got home to Penn Hills, the 5 of us ate them all...I loved the salt ones...
  children:
  - author:
      name: zeno333
    body: PS...we usually got salt, onion, and egg....
    created: '2012-07-27 03:43:12'
  created: '2012-07-27 03:40:47'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: '....We would drop my mom off in front of the bagel store, then drive around
    the streets some and come back to see if she was waiting outside the store bagels
    in hand...we always drove past a huge synagogue near there that back then had
    this huge banner up front saying "Save Soviet Jewry"....dezcom, if you say you
    also remember that big sign in front of the synagogue, I swear I will be hearing
    the music "It''s a small world" all day LOL'
  created: '2012-07-27 03:48:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, I do remember that sign!  I always expected it to be saying Jewelry :-)
  children:
  - author:
      name: zeno333
    body: "Too funny....\r\nWhen I was 9 and first started using that church bulletin
      with the Blackletter type in it, where it said \"Prayer\" I at first thought
      it said \"Dranger\" LOL...."
    created: '2012-07-27 13:16:52'
  created: '2012-07-27 04:21:56'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I honestly don't remember what got me started.  I know I knew that a person
    could make a 'font' quite early in life.  Some friends of mine were taking a class
    on it in a vo-tech class in highschool. (in the US a vo-tech class is a class
    about something highly technical--car repair, etc.  Most of the time there is
    only one place per county where you can get this training, and the students would
    have to leave their high school and travel to this place, which is the main reason
    why a lot of people liked to take the classes)  So I was about 14 when I found
    out that it was possible for someone to make a font, but I never really took any
    interest in it.  20 years later I made my first typeface. \r\n\r\nI don't know
    what made me want to get into it, but I can tell you sometimes I wish I never
    did.  Type design is fiendishly hard.  Probably because it looks so simple.  Sometimes
    I get really sick of it, like, literally sick to my stomach.  And what's worse
    is that there is no escape.  We are surrounded by text everywhere, all day.  The
    only place you could go to get away from it would be somewhere out in nature,
    far away from humanity.  If I was a landscape painter, and grew sick of seeing
    landscapes, I could just hold up in my apartment.  If I was a portrait painter,
    I could stay home, keep the TV off, and not talk to anybody.  However as a type
    designer there really is no escape.\r\n\r\nMoreover I really do think Spiekermann
    was right.  It <em>is</em> a disease.  An incurable disease.  No matter how sick
    of it I get, or how frustrated, I come back to it shortly.  I'm a fairly creative
    person.  I have written over 12 hours of music, from classical to rock to hip
    hop to sound collage.  I'm a graphic designer.  I have acted in plays, and made
    short films.  I have tried my hand at oil painting.  I have written hundreds of
    pages of stories and essays, and won awards for it.  I have written hundreds of
    poems and done the stand up spoken word thing.  I have written tens of thousands
    of lines of computer code.  I cut people's hair, men's and women's...  the list
    goes on...  But none of it, not one other part of it, has such a strong hold on
    me as type design.  I imagine its what taking heroin must be like. Once you get
    a taste you're hooked for life.  I believe this is because such small changes
    can make such a huge effect.  Moving a node by one em, or a control arm by one
    em, can make a huge difference, and all it takes is one click of an arrow key,
    whereas with anything else, making changes requires a lot more work, and may not
    even be noticed.  I sit and I look at my type in fontlab, and it's so easy to
    see, \"oh, this part is a little too thick.\" click.  \"Oh look at this other
    part, it needs this.\" click.  The ease of changing it all and the huge effects
    such easy and small changes can have is incredibly addictive.  The perfect typeface
    is only one small click away, and then just one more click, and then just one
    more click, and then just one more click....."
  created: '2012-07-27 14:08:32'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: Nothing better than getting paid to do what you love!
  created: '2012-07-30 13:31:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypesofTypefaces_4578.jpg]\r\n\r\nMy
    Uncle Ben Lieberman got me interested as a teen. This book actually came later.
    He had already written books on printing as a hobby, and convinced my Dad to buy
    a press. So I had fun doing letter press printing as a teen. \r\n\r\nLieberman
    had been a journalist. He rose to being editor of the San Francisco Chronicle,
    but they wouldn't let him touch the presses because he was not union. So he bought
    a small press and became fanatic about all things printing and type. Among other
    things, he founded the American Printing Historical Society, whose annual lecture
    is named after him. He had written his PhD in political science about freedom
    of the press, which he interpreted rightly first of all as freedom to own a press.
    He would have loved desk-top publishing. "
  created: '2012-07-30 15:01:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm not at all sure.\r\n\r\nWas it my interest in computers and related devices
    making the Selectric Composer particularly interesting?\r\n\r\nWas it an article
    in Popular Science on setting up your own home printing press?\r\n\r\nOr just
    various books on typefaces that introduced me to their beauty?"
  created: '2012-08-04 02:15:13'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: Lettraset.
  created: '2012-08-04 02:48:15'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "This.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caifanes-post_4173.jpg]"
  created: '2012-08-05 00:30:11'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Wow, what is that, rs?
  created: '2012-08-05 01:33:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: 'I think that would put me off. '
  created: '2012-08-05 19:47:44'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: I was reprimanded in second grade for adding swashes to my upright handwriting
    exercises.
  created: '2012-08-08 20:07:02'
- author:
    name: ldavidson
  body: "I was fresh out of school with a CS degree in 1983. I went to work for the
    only start-up tech company in town that any of the profs knew.  The company made
    printer controllers that let you print bar codes, different fonts, and other graphics
    - for all kinds of dot-matrix printers. I was hired to take over the software
    development for the existing business, so the senior guys could work on a new
    project. The founder and CEO told the R&D dept. he was \"betting the company\"
    that we could compete against HP in a new market for low-cost laser printers -
    we were in line with HP to receive the first shipment to the US of the new 300
    DPI Canon laser printer engines, the first ones on the market. You had to buy
    a lot of them to place an order. \r\n\r\nThe CEO refused to pay the license fees
    Adobe was asking for their fonts, so we (the R&D dept) were told to make our own
    fonts. They hired two people of artistic bent (but no font design experience)
    to start. Soon after the gurus had the engines printing at all, test fonts started
    coming out, and the results were not what the artists expected or wanted. The
    gurus were busy, so they asked me to have a look. So I learned about the technology
    between them and the paper, and helped them sort out the problems (inside corner
    fills, outside corner rounding, unexpected  thicknesses, bad curves, etc.) and
    got to draw some shapes of my own. My interest expanded from there."
  created: '2012-08-10 05:23:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I had been quietly studying up on screen \"readability\" with the intention
    of writing about it.  I had also done web development for the New York City Transit
    Authority.  Intranet work, mostly.\r\nSo when it became clear that fonts were
    finally going to become web server based resources, I felt there was an opening
    for somebody to focus on that.\r\n\r\nThere still is.  We're almost at the end
    of the beginning by my reckoning and I'm planning on ratcheting up my involvement
    quite soon.  I think the last tally I read - and give some credence to - was that
    about 8% of web sites now have web fonts in use.  Only 8%. \r\n\r\nI have my tastes,
    but I'm certainly no designer.  My interest is more technological -  getting fonts
    to work well - consistently and predictably - onscreen in web pages. I'm also
    interested in the impact a greater range of typefaces has on expression onscreen.
    \ To take a metaphor from musical theatre: Typefaces are the alphabet in costume
    and typography is the orchestration. "
  created: '2012-08-10 06:00:02'
- author:
    name: CorpusMilti
  body: For me, it was 'Helvetica' by Gary Hustwit.
  created: '2012-08-13 02:15:23'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: It's the logotype of my favorite teenage rock band Ryan.
  created: '2012-08-13 19:24:44'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Being handed responsibility for a corporate type library which included hundreds
    of unique original assets and having to start from scratch sorting it out.
  created: '2012-08-14 08:27:16'
- author:
    name: studio-k
    picture: 125424
  body: " My first introduction to typography, barring a kid\u2019s set of ABC building
    blocks, was the pocket money purchase of a John Bull Printing Outfit, a sort of
    do-it-yourself rubber stamp kit with rubber characters, tweezers and an ink pad.
    I used it to create a business card which proclaimed me as leader of our neighbourhood
    gang, and learned my first lesson in the authority of type: people will believe
    anything they see in print!  Read the rest of the story under my profile - Keith
    Tricker - at myfonts"
  created: '2012-08-14 13:55:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I too had a John Bull set.\r\nAnd played with Letraset.\r\nBut there are
    many things I \u201Cstarted to become interested in\u201D that didn\u2019t end
    up as my career(s).\r\nWith type, I would say in retrospect that an accumulation
    of in\uFB02uences and circumstances made me an art director and subsequently a
    type designer.\r\n\r\nHad I been a better art director, I would no doubt have
    worked at an agency doing broadcast ads rather than B2B type-heavy print, directed
    commercials, and eventually become a movie director like Ridley Scott. \r\n\r\nRather
    than a serial accumulation of prods in this direction, there may well have been
    a turning point when two or more in\uFB02uences coincided. \r\n\r\nI can certainly
    attribute my career as a (successful) type designer to one person. In the mid
    1980s I gave up on type design, having had a couple of faces published\u2014a
    lot of work and precious little remuneration. Then in 1993 David Michaelides,
    the manager of the FontShop store in Toronto, organized a type event with Carter
    and Brody speaking; he then suggested I present some type concept ideas to FontFont,
    which I did, and they published Fontesque, which became very popular. Had it not
    been, I would probably not have pursued type design any further.\r\n\r\nA lot
    of turning points, serendipity, personal inspiration, opportunities opened up
    by new technology, and so on."
  created: '2012-08-14 18:22:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cheers to David Michaelides then!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-14 19:29:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ nickshinn\r\n\r\n>and eventually become a movie director like Ridley Scott.\r\n\r\n
    And, hopefully, not end up in the drink like his brother Tony at the age of 68.
    Physically, it sounds like he was in good health.\r\n\r\nA shame, I liked his
    movies a lot.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-20 21:42:21'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>... sounds like he was in good health.</cite>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.thestar.com/entertainment/stargazing/article/1244045--tony-scott-had-inoperable-brain-cancer-report\">brain
    cancer.</a>, they say\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-21 01:40:45'
- author:
    name: mjr
    picture: 112731
  body: I remember getting a musty old book from the school library, but for the life
    of me I can't remember anything about it except the typefaces. Whenever there
    was dialogue (and there was a lot), each character "spoke" in a different typeface.
    One was italic, one was hold, one was sans-serif, one was Old English, and so
    on. It was incredibly hard to read, not only because the story line was boring,
    but the mixture of typefaces was physically jarring. Being an artistic person,
    I realized it must be something in the design, and I set out to study type design.
  created: '2012-08-23 08:10:38'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "For me it was graffiti, getting to point where I could produce tags like
    [[http://img.ffffound.com/static-data/assets/6/e0e1cd06ea61836b9435727d3a9bbeee9e59e241_m.gif|this]]
    led me into Gerrit Noordzij and the rigour of type design.\r\n\r\nAlso...the black
    and white purity of it really appeals."
  created: '2012-08-23 10:56:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, you must be talking about one of Avital Ronell's books. BTW the
    best place I've seen that idea applied subtly enough to remain easily readable
    (unlike Ronell's books) is -of all places- a cheesy novel called \"The Interior
    Life\" by Katherine Blake (Dorothy Heydt).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the black and white
    purity of it really appeals.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-23 15:23:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What great photos, Peter!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-23 17:49:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Fascinating, Peter, thanks. '
  created: '2012-08-23 18:29:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Reading Charles Bigelow\u2019s 1983 <em>Scientific American</em> essay with
    Donald Day on Digital Typography.\r\n\r\nBut the background was probably my father\u2019s
    box of sample sheets.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letter_varia_IMG_1360_72_ppi_3414.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    maybe my father\u2019s sign-painting abilities\u2026\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/we_use_tc_IMG_1362_sm_6628.jpg]\r\n\r\n\u2026which
    he inherited from his father may have had something to do with it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dadandsigns_IMG_1368_sm_4014.jpg](that's
    my father on the left)\r\n\r\nAnd perhaps my grade 6 & 7 teacher had something
    to do with it as well.  He did things like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/happy_birth_mom_IMG_1365_sm_5813.jpg]
    Clearly the young artist at the centre (me) hadn\u2019t read Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s
    writings yet."
  created: '2012-08-23 21:50:41'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: For me the most important reason was being asked to do the typesetting and
    layout for a journal I was editing. But prior inclinations already existed, going
    back to when I was little and my grandfather was a newspaper publisher. I saw
    the printing operation a couple of times and found it fascinating, and he also
    had a cabinet of old wood headline type in his basement. And I've also had some
    experience with epigraphy.
  created: '2012-08-24 03:30:22'
date: '2012-07-25 20:51:16'
title: What started you being interested in typefaces?

---
