---
author:
  name: inkexit
body: "(The following text is from Slate.com)\r\n\r\nCan I let you in on a secret?
  Typing two spaces after a period is totally, completely, utterly, and inarguably
  wrong.\r\n\r\nAnd yet people who use two spaces are everywhere, their ugly error
  crossing every social boundary of class, education, and taste. *  You'd expect,
  for instance, that anyone savvy enough to read Slate would know the proper rules
  of typing, but you'd be wrong; every third e-mail I get from readers includes the
  two-space error. (In editing letters for \"Dear Farhad,\" my occasional tech-advice
  column, I've removed enough extra spaces to fill my forthcoming volume of melancholy
  epic poetry, The Emptiness Within.) The public relations profession is similarly
  ignorant; I've received press releases and correspondence from the biggest companies
  in the world that are riddled with extra spaces. Some of my best friends are irredeemable
  two spacers, too, and even my wife has been known to use an unnecessary extra space
  every now and then (though she points out that she does so only when writing to
  other two-spacers, just to make them happy).\r\nAdvertisement\r\n\r\nWhat galls
  me about two-spacers isn't just their numbers. It's their certainty that they're
  right. Over Thanksgiving dinner last year, I asked people what they considered to
  be the \"correct\" number of spaces between sentences. The diners included doctors,
  computer programmers, and other highly accomplished professionals. Everyone\u2014everyone!\u2014said
  it was proper to use two spaces. Some people admitted to slipping sometimes and
  using a single space\u2014but when writing something formal, they were always careful
  to use two. Others explained they mostly used a single space but felt guilty for
  violating the two-space \"rule.\" Still others said they used two spaces all the
  time, and they were thrilled to be so proper. When I pointed out that they were
  doing it wrong\u2014that, in fact, the correct way to end a sentence is with a period
  followed by a single, proud, beautiful space\u2014the table balked. \"Who says two
  spaces is wrong?\" they wanted to know.\r\n\r\nTypographers, that's who. The people
  who study and design the typewritten word decided long ago that we should use one
  space, not two, between sentences. That convention was not arrived at casually.
  James Felici, author of the The Complete Manual of Typography, points out that the
  early history of type is one of inconsistent spacing. Hundreds of years ago some
  typesetters would end sentences with a double space, others would use a single space,
  and a few renegades would use three or four spaces. Inconsistency reigned in all
  facets of written communication; there were few conventions regarding spelling,
  punctuation, character design, and ways to add emphasis to type. But as typesetting
  became more widespread, its practitioners began to adopt best practices. Felici
  writes that typesetters in Europe began to settle on a single space around the early
  20th century. America followed soon after.\r\n\r\nEvery modern typographer agrees
  on the one-space rule. It's one of the canonical rules of the profession, in the
  same way that waiters know that the salad fork goes to the left of the dinner fork
  and fashion designers know to put men's shirt buttons on the right and women's on
  the left. Every major style guide\u2014including the Modern Language Association
  Style Manual and the Chicago Manual of Style\u2014prescribes a single space after
  a period. (The Publications Manual of the American Psychological Association, used
  widely in the social sciences, allows for two spaces in draft manuscripts but recommends
  one space in published work.) Most ordinary people would know the one-space rule,
  too, if it weren't for a quirk of history. In the middle of the last century, a
  now-outmoded technology\u2014the manual typewriter\u2014invaded the American workplace.
  To accommodate that machine's shortcomings, everyone began to type wrong. And even
  though we no longer use typewriters, we all still type like we do. (Also see the
  persistence of the dreaded Caps Lock key.)\r\n\r\nThe problem with typewriters was
  that they used monospaced type\u2014that is, every character occupied an equal amount
  of horizontal space. This bucked a long tradition of proportional typesetting, in
  which skinny characters (like I or 1) were given less space than fat ones (like
  W or M). Monospaced type gives you text that looks \"loose\" and uneven; there's
  a lot of white space between characters and words, so it's more difficult to spot
  the spaces between sentences immediately. Hence the adoption of the two-space rule\u2014on
  a typewriter, an extra space after a sentence makes text easier to read. Here's
  the thing, though: Monospaced fonts went out in the 1970s. First electric typewriters
  and then computers began to offer people ways to create text using proportional
  fonts. Today nearly every font on your PC is proportional. (Courier is the one major
  exception.) Because we've all switched to modern fonts, adding two spaces after
  a period no longer enhances readability, typographers say. It diminishes it.\r\n\r\nType
  professionals can get amusingly\u2014if justifiably\u2014overworked about spaces.
  \"Forget about tolerating differences of opinion: typographically speaking, typing
  two spaces before the start of a new sentence is absolutely, unequivocally wrong,\"
  Ilene Strizver, who runs a typographic consulting firm The Type Studio, once wrote.
  \"When I see two spaces I shake my head and I go, Aye yay yay,\" she told me. \"I
  talk about 'type crimes' often, and in terms of what you can do wrong, this one
  deserves life imprisonment. It's a pure sign of amateur typography.\" \"A space
  signals a pause,\" says David Jury, the author of About Face: Reviving The Rules
  of Typography. \"If you get a really big pause\u2014a big hole\u2014in the middle
  of a line, the reader pauses. And you don't want people to pause all the time. You
  want the text to flow.\"\r\n\r\nThis readability argument is debatable. Typographers
  can point to no studies or any other evidence proving that single spaces improve
  readability. When you press them on it, they tend to cite their aesthetic sensibilities.
  As Jury says, \"It's so bloody ugly.\"\r\n\r\nBut I actually think aesthetics are
  the best argument in favor of one space over two. One space is simpler, cleaner,
  and more visually pleasing (it also requires less work, which isn't nothing). A
  page of text with two spaces between every sentence looks riddled with holes; a
  page of text with an ordinary space looks just as it should.\r\n\r\nIs this arbitrary?
  Sure it is. But so are a lot of our conventions for writing. It's arbitrary that
  we write shop instead of shoppe, or phone instead of fone, or that we use ! to emphasize
  a sentence rather than %. We adopted these standards because practitioners of publishing\u2014writers,
  editors, typographers, and others\u2014settled on them after decades of experience.
  Among their rules was that we should use one space after a period instead of two\u2014so
  that's how we should do it.\r\n\r\nBesides, the argument in favor of two spaces
  isn't any less arbitrary. Samantha Jacobs, a reading and journalism teacher at Norwood
  High School in Norwood, Col., told me that she requires her students to use two
  spaces after a period instead of one, even though she acknowledges that style manuals
  no longer favor that approach. Why? Because that's what she's used to. \"Primarily,
  I base the spacing on the way I learned,\" she wrote me in an e-mail glutted with
  extra spaces.\r\n\r\nSeveral other teachers gave me the same explanation for pushing
  two spaces on their students. But if you think about, that's a pretty backward approach:
  The only reason today's teachers learned to use two spaces is because their teachers
  were in the grip of old-school technology. We would never accept teachers pushing
  other outmoded ideas on kids because that's what was popular back when they were
  in school. The same should go for typing. So, kids, if your teachers force you to
  use two spaces, send them a link to this article. Use this as your subject line:
  \"If you type two spaces after a period, you're doing it wrong.\"\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "We\u2019ve had this discussion here before.  There were/are legitimate typographical
    reasons for the two-space convention.  \r\n"
  created: '2012-07-27 19:30:53'
- author:
    name: sko
    picture: 124613
  body: I have a copy of King Albert's Book, and it seems to have extra space (larger
    than a word space, which is used after the commas) after the full-stops. Would
    this be influenced by typewriters at the time (considering it was printed, I think,
    in 1914)?
  created: '2012-07-27 19:34:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Two spaces for a monospaced typewriter, one space for typeset proportionally-spaced
    text. Surely that's been settled long ago.
  created: '2012-07-27 19:42:41'
- author:
    name: David Vereschagin
    picture: 122439
  body: "People are still ranting over this? \r\n\r\nDavid\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Vereschagin
      picture: 122439
    body: "Hmm, I guess they are.\r\n\r\nDavid\r\n"
    created: '2012-07-28 05:32:47'
  created: '2012-07-27 21:27:13'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: I took a class in 1979 that including instruction in writing business letters,
    and we were told to do the 2 space thing....of course word processing was in its
    infancy back then.....I have always just used one space.....
  created: '2012-07-27 22:12:13'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: "Paragraph formatting has evolved some also....\r\n\r\nIn the 60s and 70s
    I was always told you must indent a paragraph 's beginning and do not double space
    between paragraphs.....Today many are told you do not indent, but put a double
    line space to mark paragraphs without indenting....."
  created: '2012-07-27 22:15:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Devolution, some would say.
  created: '2012-07-27 22:53:53'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: I would imagine there is some debate out there about paragraph indenting....Many
    word processors today still default to having paragraphs indented....
  created: '2012-07-27 22:56:59'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "TeX and LaTeX (still) have a larger default inter-sentence than inter-word
    spacing; you need to use the command <code>\\frenchspacing</code> to disable that
    behavior. I doubt many users know about that or even noticed the difference. Moreover,
    the standard LaTeX packages amsart (Americal Mathematical Society) or revtex4-1
    (American Physical Society) do not call <code>\\frenchspacing</code> (the Springer
    llncs package however does). Here is a grab of the output with plain TeX (Computer
    Modern font)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abcd_5114.png]\r\non the source\r\n<pre>
    \ a b. c d\\par \r\n  \\frenchspacing\r\n  a b. c d\r\n  \\bye\r\n</pre>\r\nMichel\r\nCorrection:
    read \"document class(es)\" where I wrote \"package(s)\"."
  created: '2012-07-27 23:04:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "What he said: \u2019Typing two spaces after a period is totally, completely,
    utterly, and inarguably wrong.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat is true: \u201CTyping two spaces
    after a period is totally, completely, utterly, and inarguably wrong\u2014for
    anyone, like me (who, after all, is the most important AND authoritaive moron
    in the world AND on the internet)\u2014who does not have clue one why there is
    a reason for something that I don't know, is not easily Googlable, or is under
    retirement age.  So there.\u201D\r\n\r\nNick, old buddy: you got this one right.
    \ And, if we\u2019re \u201Clucky,\u201D we ought to be able to bring about mass
    extinction ALL on our own\u2014because two spaces after a period is stupid\u2014when
    it took a totally accidental giant asteroid to wipe out the dinosaurs. That's
    call Progress\u2014or hubris\u2014or stupidity\u2026\r\n\r\nWhich, unfortunately,
    leads me to believe that even dinosaurs\u2014like me and a lot of clueless older
    folks\u2014could find wisdom in allowing a little extra space to clearly disambiguate.
    \ Which, sadly, makes perfect sense in the insane asylum we all live in, the Paradise
    formerly know as Planet Earth.\r\n\r\nOkay: anyone else want their buzz killed?
    \ AOL did it for me yesterday, when they \u201Cimproved\u201D my mailbox and\u2014completely
    inadvertently (I must presume, to adumbrate my paranoia)\u2014made it a WHOLE
    LOT harder to use.  More Progress\u2026\r\n\r\nBTW\u2014I am SO using two spaces
    after a period from now on. Twenty-three skidoo you, Buster!"
  created: '2012-07-27 23:50:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "RATS! The HTML generator keeps taking them OUT again! This CANNOT be right!\r\n\r\nHell,
    neither am I\u2026what right do I have to complain? OTOH, when has that EVER stopped
    a red-blooded American from doing it, anyway?\r\n\r\nAnd, BTW: please apologize
    for the split infinitive in the missive above. On the off chance that anyone else
    noticed or gave a rat\u2019s patoot\u2026"
  created: '2012-07-27 23:54:22'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I thought the basic idea was to have 2 spaces after a period so that people
    would know for sure it was a period and not a comma?  Of course having a capital
    letter after the space helps as well. \r\n\r\nSurely the real reason this is happening
    is that it's very hard to create more then one space in a row on the web.  You
    can put a hundred spaces after every sentence but most all browsers will take
    back out all but one.  You won't be able to spot any double spaces on this web
    page, for instance, although I gather there is some kind of ascii code you can
    use for a double space.  Not sure if it's an 'ascii code' but something like that.\r\n\r\nThis
    is the reasoning behind the non indented double spaced paragraph format as well.\r\n\r\nSo,
    instead of making the technology come around to adapt to us, we are adapting to
    it.\r\n\r\nFor myself I would say I only prefer the non indented style because
    the tab button seems to be set up for absurd indentation in most word processors.
    Something like ten character widths or something, much too wide.  Of course you
    can change that, or just type in 4 spaces for your indent, but what a pain."
  created: '2012-07-27 23:55:14'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "In a web page, you can always add some space &nbsp; between &nbsp; words
    &nbsp; using &amp;nbsp;.\r\n\r\nIt is also true with TeX that one or more spaces
    between words makes no difference and I thus find a bit surprising that there
    are still rules on the number of spaces that you are expected to put after periods
    in your input files.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, for text justification, it makes
    sense to me to give more \"stretch\" to inter-sentence spacing than to inter-word
    spacing. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-28 00:10:50'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: That's true but how many people know that, and would actually use it?  Would
    it be so hard to simply allow multiple spacing in html?
  created: '2012-07-28 00:16:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Ryan\u2014\r\n\r\nYou must be a child of the internet. There is something
    about \u201COBVIOUS DISAMBIGUATION\u201D you do not\u2014or, worse, cannot\u2014grasp.\r\n\r\nIn
    case\u2014which I hope to God is NOT the case\u2014you do not understand the term
    \u201Cobvious disambiguation\u201D\u2014it means\u2014PERFECTLY CLEAR.\r\n\r\nWhich,
    if you are a TRUE child of the internet, may also be unclear. If so, you have
    my profoundest sympathies, and the next generation is EVEN MORE totally screwed
    than I thought humanly possible. But, after all, humans are so ingenious that
    future generations may not have a Planet Earth to live on. If we all pay for the
    search for the rich guys to vamoose to, once the current house of cards goes ALL
    FALL DOWN.\r\n\r\nOr Tuesday, which ever comes sooner. Sooner would be good for
    Wimpy, but a little less convenient for the rest of us who don\u2019t buy hamburgers
    on \u201Cgood faith\u201D credit. We use plastic. That's where the real\u2014or
    unreal, if you ask Ron Paul\u2014money is. Or isn\u2019t. Do you know? My bank
    doesn\u2019t. Except when I owe them. Then, they know exactly where my money is.
    In their bank. Where I can't get at it. Which is just the way they like it. Any
    time. Twenty-four hours a day. For a fee, of course."
  created: '2012-07-28 00:17:51'
- author:
    name: sko
    picture: 124613
  body: "HTML still allows for an en-space or em-space to be used, though it has to
    be put in with a code so isn't easily accessed. \xB6 There are also other ways
    to paragraph, which again aren't a straightforward thing you can do when typing
    normally. Full line space is probably just the path of least resistance."
  created: '2012-07-28 00:18:32'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Still mad no free beer, OldNick?
  created: '2012-07-28 00:27:55'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Typing classes (on TYPEWRITERS) used to teach typing two spaces. Some of
    us who took those classes many decades ago find it very difficult to change our
    fingers' mechanical memory. I've managed to overcome it, but my wife hasn't. It's
    almost as difficult as changing from a qwerty keyboard to anything else. We had
    to transition from typing a small letter 'ELL' for a numeral ONE, and not to type
    an apostrophe followed by a backspace and a period to create an exclamation point.
    Then there was where things were on the keyboard - shift/numbers were 2-double
    quote, 6-Underscore, 7-Ampersand, 8-single quote.  There was a comma key and a
    period key, both of which worked  either  shifted or un-shifted. and an @-\xA2
    key.  Most of us old dogs managed to learn new tricks pretty quickly, but ...\r\n\r\nNot
    to mention double spacing after a paragraph (as I've just done) instead of setting
    inter-paragraph spacing - which can't be done here."
  created: '2012-07-28 00:47:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, Ryan\u2014\r\n\r\nThat is ONE way to look at it. Since you posted your
    presumed \u201Cown observation,\u201D I feel I can be reasonably confident enough
    to go out on a limb and presume that you, yourself, actually posted it intentionally
    and on this forum; and, in consideration whereof, I might, quite reasonably, also
    presume that the words which actually appear on the LED screen in front of my
    very eyes actually <em>are</em> a credible representation of the precise, irrefutable,
    conscious, deliberate and indubitable thought which you, yourself, wished to be
    so expressed and conveyed\u2014the curse of the mediacy of language be damned.\r\n\r\nMay
    I be so bold as to\u2014once more\u2014presume that my precise intentions, mood,
    timbre and nuance have been conveyed in the same manner? Because, silly person
    that I am, I wish to eschew obfuscation\u2014as well as both superfluously sesquipedalian
    and inanely arcane lexicological legerdemain\u2014in order to render clarity with
    the utmost precision?"
  created: '2012-07-28 00:48:57'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "P.S. The translation will cost you a second beer\u2014which I would appreciate
    because it was generously offered, but not three, because I tend to get a little
    too frisky for my own good then.\r\n\r\nHowever, since I am not aware of a SINGLE
    English-to-English translator in machine language (avaialable on the internet),
    you will\u2014if I have played my cards right\u2014require the services of a Ph.D.
    in English Language and Literature in order to ascertain my drift.\r\n\r\nOr,
    commit to buying the second beer (assuming I can get to Milwaukee on the cheap),
    and I will clue you in\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd Michael: I am not clueless about non-breaking
    space; on the other hand, I am not willing to type SIX characters to do the work
    of one\u2026not even as a matter of principle. Unless, in so doing, I can really
    piss some jerk who deserves it off\u2026like all of Craigslist. The whole lot
    of them deserved to be annoyed. Which I did. Big Time."
  created: '2012-07-28 01:03:51'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Not really interested in your translation.  But tell you what, I'll buy you
    a keg for 6 hours of type design lessons.
  created: '2012-07-28 01:37:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: never mind
  created: '2012-07-28 02:05:43'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I am not willing to type SIX characters to do the work of one</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    need. I have a little script (it is dated 2009, I used it by then to format things
    before the pre tag became available) that may do the job (and other things)\r\n<PRE>\r\n#!/bin/sh\r\n\r\nsed
    's/&lt;/\\&amp;lt;/g\r\n&nbsp; s/&gt;/\\&amp;gt;/g\r\n&nbsp; s/\\[/\\&amp;#91;/g\r\n&nbsp;
    s/\\]/\\&amp;#93;/g\r\n&nbsp; s/ /\\&amp;nbsp;/g' $1\r\n</PRE>"
  created: '2012-07-28 02:27:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "You are 34 now and have been drawing letterforms since you were five years
    old, yet you still need type design lessons? I'd concede defeat if I were you
    Ryan. \r\n"
  created: '2012-07-28 08:26:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I'd take an \"eternal student\" over somebody who thinks they've
    \"arrived\" any day.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-28 14:55:24'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "My pet peeve is when people use periods in phone numbers. It looks like a
    serial number and not a phone number\r\n888.888.8888\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-28 15:26:52'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: "Speaking of phone number notation, here are the supposed standards regarding
    that subject....\r\nhttp://www.itu.int/rec/dologin_pub.asp?lang=e&id=T-REC-E.123-200102-I!!PDF-E&type=items"
  created: '2012-07-28 15:56:23'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>You are 34 now and have been drawing letterforms since you were five
    years old, yet you still need type design lessons? I'd concede defeat if I were
    you Ryan.</em>\r\n\r\nWould you? You must be quite a weak person. Have you always
    ran away with your tail between your legs anytime you couldn't easily master something?"
  created: '2012-07-28 18:41:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nOnly us geezers know about Wimpy and his Tuesday hamburger payment
    thing :-)"
  created: '2012-07-28 18:48:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oh no, I'm a geezer?\r\n\r\nRyan, I think Nick's point is not that one should
    turn tail and run from something that is difficult to master, but that one should
    be realistic after a long period of time about whether one is anywhere near mastering
    it, whether one is making any progress, and whether one is in fact building on
    any kind of talent. There are many people in the world who spend decades of their
    lives trying to master something for which they have no talent, and their stories
    are generally sorry ones, especially if they had a talent for some other thing
    that they didn't pursue because they were busy trying to accomplish something
    to which they were in some way unsuited."
  created: '2012-07-28 21:56:44'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: These are wise words, John.  But I'm not giving up after only one year, especially
    since I've had no training whatsoever.  I'm sure apprenticing under a master for
    a year or so would make a huge difference, if I could find one willing. Didn't
    you learn from someone else?  Didn't Hoefler and Fere Jones? Didn't Hubert Jocham?
    Didn't Groot?
  created: '2012-07-28 23:35:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I myself am classically trained. I'm self-taught.  :->\r\n\r\nJohn: I do
    agree that getting an objective grip on one's own talents is key. And leveraging
    them might just be the secret to happiness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-28 23:44:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ryan,\r\nIf you love designing type then keep doing it, otherwise..."
  created: '2012-07-29 02:40:06'
date: '2012-07-27 18:42:20'
title: Sacrilege!!

---
