---
author:
  name: zeno333
body: "In the video here...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F691weEVpwc&feature=related\r\n\r\n....Erik
  Spiekermann says his favorite letter is the \"small a\"...I totally agree....It
  is the most complex and has the most potential for variation as he says....That
  is one of the reasons I have always been fascinated with the \"Galliard\" typeface,
  it is revolutionary since it dares to \"throw away\" much of the potential variation
  of the small letter a and replace that with just a uniform width straight line!!!....INGENIOUS
  I say....."
comments:
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: PS...I know, that straight line in Galliard's small a is not exactly uniform
    width, it is slightly narrower at the upper right part etc, but at 12 or 14 point
    that detail is hard to tell and few notice it.
  created: '2012-07-28 04:48:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Armenian lowercase \u0570. It has so many stories to tell, not least
    about the future.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/istype/7605119742\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-28 04:56:02'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "Some S's that I have made throughout my career. The S is my favorite letter.
    Some are fonts and others are lettering jobs. :)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Borges_6056.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: zeno333
    body: Have you ever made the so called "archaic long s"?
    created: '2012-07-28 15:04:14'
  created: '2012-07-28 15:01:59'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: When I was practicing Spencerian years ago I made the long s. Not sure if
    that is the same thing you are talking about.
  created: '2012-07-28 15:13:03'
- author:
    name: zeno333
  body: I am referring to the long s that looks like an f without the right side part
    of the f cross bar.
  created: '2012-07-28 15:30:58'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Sounds like a normal long s to me.
  created: '2012-07-28 15:37:47'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: 'The ones I did years ago just looked like an f without the crossbar. '
  created: '2012-07-28 15:38:08'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: My favourite glyph to make is the asterisk, and it's got to be five-pointed.
  created: '2012-07-28 16:22:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And upside-down, or in certain styles slightly rotated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-28 16:25:38'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Charles, wow, I'm surprised anyone likes the S!  For me I spend about ten
    times the amount of time on the s then I have to on any other glyph.
  created: '2012-07-28 19:03:57'
- author:
    name: Godless
    picture: 120068
  body: I would definitely pick capital R (apparently Erik Spiekermann's second favorite
    ^_^), I love when it isn't connected in the middle. It also has some sort of dynamism
    (maybe due to straight, curved and diagonal lines all in one letterform) and crispness
    to it that I like much.
  created: '2012-07-28 19:49:34'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: .
  created: '2012-07-29 07:38:49'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "Ryan,\r\nThat is why I like the S so much. Once you have mastered the S the
    other letters are easy :)"
  created: '2012-07-29 16:12:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Ryan Maelhorn:\r\n<cite>For me I spend about ten times the amount of time
    on the s then I have to on any other glyph.</cite>\r\n\r\nThen [[http://projecteuclid.org/DPubS?service=UI&version=1.0&verb=Display&handle=euclid.bams/1183544082|Donald
    Knuth's experience]] in the design of Computer Modern is not atypical."
  created: '2012-07-29 21:21:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's at least half a coincidence, since he was only doing about half type
    design...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-29 22:32:12'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>Then Donald Knuth's experience in the design of Computer Modern is not
    atypical.</em>\r\n\r\nSeems there would be no better place to find that out than
    here.\r\n\r\nWhat does everyone else say?  Is the S the hardest latin glyph?"
  created: '2012-07-30 00:44:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me it's the binocular \"g\", by a long shot. And I'm not speaking only
    from my own experience - it's quite common to see a font that works fine... except
    for the \"g\"; or a font where the \"g\" is lifted/modified from an accomplished
    typeface because the designer couldn't get it right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-30 00:52:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I also love drawing the \"S\" because it has more gain than pain.  For the
    opposite reason, I hate drawing \"W.\"\r\n\r\nMy favorite roman is the lower case
    \"g\"--here is one I am soon going to release (as a glyph) as part of my typeface
    Dez Petranian.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DezPetran_g_3760.png]"
  created: '2012-07-30 02:45:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: Gazimough, from the zingauloonian carbon script. Impossible to render with
    technology available in this sector.
  created: '2012-07-30 03:00:02'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "5ive.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-07-30 04:49:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: S, yes. As for favorites, I like the i no dot the most. Vertical bar next.
    Then the back slash... Period and comma next... Then the stuff you can combine
    from that. Then the stuff you get to flip, so its two for one. Then then stuff
    you can just cut and paste from other stuff, all the way the down to... the S,
    no... the s is harder, less room. But the S is more filling, so it could be a
    toss up.;)
  created: '2012-07-30 16:47:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@5star:\r\n<cite>5ive.</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm. Inspired by this famous painting,
    were you?\r\n\r\n[[http://www.wisdomportal.com/Christmas/Figure5InGold.html]]"
  created: '2012-07-31 19:21:56'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "@quadibloc , Demuth's for sure, and J.J.'s too (amongst others)!\r\n\r\nwww.graphicdeclaration.com/images/JasperJohns_5.jpg\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-01 03:31:34'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Binocular, Hrant, seriously?\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-04 02:00:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I used to call it \"bicameral\", but Kent convinced me (via Bringhurst IIRC)
    that that's better reserved for describing writing systems with two cases (such
    as Latin and Armenian). One reason \"binocular\" works is that \"eye\" is an accepted
    term in type design. What's you preferred term? I hope it's not \"two-story\"...\r\n\r\nBTW,
    in this entire thread is that the only thing you found worthy of discussion?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-04 02:11:10'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I hate all letters. they're all so damn devilish. What's to like about ay
    of them?\r\n\r\nR is OK, and being the initial letter of my first name may or
    may not be coincidental."
  created: '2012-08-04 02:43:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The letters are fine...then you have to fit them together!
  created: '2012-08-04 04:45:42'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Binocular implies equal size. Two, or double, story seems descriptive enough.
  created: '2012-08-04 23:57:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>Binocular implies equal size</blockquote>\r\nLet\u2019s call
    it the \u201CRollei g\u201D, then ;-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rollei_4224.jpg]"
  created: '2012-08-05 00:10:39'
- author:
    name: mjr
    picture: 112731
  body: "I spend so much time with letters, that I am a bit jaded. So I have chosen
    <strong>\xF0</strong> (lowercase <em>eth</em>) as my favorite.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eth_5720.jpg]"
  created: '2012-08-24 03:45:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>One reason \"binocular\" works is that \"eye\" is an accepted
    term in type design.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich is why I have taken to calling it the \u2018<em>do
    chashm\u012B</em> g\u2019, akin to the two-eyed \u06BE. Well, alright, I actually
    call it two-eyed most of the time, but it sounds better in Persian."
  created: '2012-08-24 18:00:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t really think of letters in terms of favorites, but there are
    certain Greek and Cyrillic characters which I often \uFB01nd remarkably dif\uFB01cult
    to draw, and not because I am a native Latin user. \r\n\r\nI suspect it is because
    with Greek the letters are very \u201Cscripty\u201D, and don\u2019t adapt well
    to more rigid typographic conventions that stem from the Latin typographic tradition.
    With Cyrillic, it\u2019s the other way around.\r\n\r\nI wonder if native Cyrillic
    and Greek type designers have a similar experience."
  created: '2012-08-24 19:09:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I am only half-way into the "native" Greek category since my family is from
    Greece and I was born in the USA but I see what you are saying, Nick.  I was taught
    both Greek and English from birth but my first few years of life were spent in
    my grandparents house (where only Greek was spoken) while my father was away at
    WWII. I attended Greek School up in to high school as well so I was quite familiar
    with the Greek script.  I have no problem "seeing" and drawing the glyph forms
    of Greek because they seem quite normal to me.  I don't think it is a question
    of being "scripty" as much as being familiar.  The Greek theta is a glyph that
    is not particularly scripty but it is very strange looking to the non-Greek  because
    it is so very tall and thin compared to any English letter.  I would bet that
    the biggest problem a non-greek type designer would have was to actually be able
    to believe the theta was really that narrow.
  created: '2012-08-24 19:27:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, you can be native in more than one script.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-25 01:58:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Hrant, yes, you can be.  I just don't know if I qualify as native in Greek
    or not.  I spoke Greek as a child but rarely after my college years and I was
    not born in Greece so that is why I say I am only half-way native in Greek.
  created: '2012-08-25 02:29:03'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: '''Two story'' seems to be the term most people know, if they know any at
    all.  From a pragmatical pov I vote we keep ''two story.'''
  created: '2012-08-25 17:51:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: There's only one story here, and it's two storey.
  created: '2012-08-25 21:59:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although I participated in this thread at the time, I did not try to name
    a favorite letter of my own. I use all 26 of the letters of the Latin alphabet
    to communicate with, and I just don't relate to them in a way that inspires me
    to single any one of them out.\r\n\r\nHowever, just recently, I learned of a lonely
    orphan letter that needs a little help.\r\n\r\nOn [[http://www.quadibloc.com/comp/kyb04.htm|my
    website]], I have a page about various typewriter keyboard arrangements. Recently,
    I learned of the existence on the web of copies of a book I thought only existed
    in a lost manuscript. It was a Russian-language book from 1913.\r\n\r\nAnd, thus,
    of course, it was in the old orthography, the new orthography only being decreed
    in 1918. This led to my becoming curious about how the change in orthography affected
    the Russian typewriter keyboard, and hence I made an addition to the page referenced
    above.\r\n\r\nEven before this, I had run across claims that one of the letters
    eliminated from Russian, \u0462 or \u0463, \"yat\", was not actually identical
    in pronounciation to the letter currently used for it, at least in some dialects
    of Russian, and indeed distinguished words distinct in meaning.\r\n\r\nSo I think
    that I will adopt \"yat\" as my favorite letter, at least at the moment."
  created: '2012-10-09 21:50:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice choice - always cool to side with an underdog.\r\n\r\nMany years ago
    an academic requested that I add a letter to one of my Armenian fonts; he was
    writing a paper about pre-Mashtots Armenian and claimed that we used to have a
    sound like the Arabic \u062D (which I'm not sure how to properly describe) that
    got lost when our alphabet was implemented. According to his research the word
    for \"lion\" for example (\u0561\u057C\u056B\u0582\u056E, which sounds like \"arrouydz\")
    originally started with that sound instead of an \"a\" sound (which actually makes
    sense if you know what \u062D sounds like :-).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-09 23:43:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>... a sound like the Arabic</em> \u062D (<em>which I'm not sure how to
    properly describe</em>)...\r\n\r\nVoiceless pharyngeal fricative, a sound produced
    by constricting the flow of air with the base of the tongue at the back of the
    throat."
  created: '2012-10-10 00:08:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Unfortunately, such a technical term as \"voiceless pharyngeal fricative\"
    fails to have meaning to me; I will have to learn.\r\n\r\nBut a Google search
    got me to\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heth]]\r\n\r\nand some other articles,
    where I see that it is symbolized by h\u0323 (Hmm.. the \"h\u0323\" in Muh\u0323ammad!)
    or by \u0127... and is at least one possible old pronounciation of the Hebrew
    letter \u05D7 .\r\n\r\nIf the sound was lost from Armenian before its alphabet
    was formed, then, unlike the case for the Brahmi family of abugidas, it may be
    hard to decide what the new letter for Armenian \"should\" look like.\r\n\r\nHad
    Armenian been written with the Cyrillic script, then when there is no letter for
    a given sound in Greek, the practice of turning to Hebrew for inspiration already
    has a precedent: \u0428. Unfortunately, that would imply the new letter would
    look like \u041F, and that shape happens to already be taken."
  created: '2012-10-10 01:09:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>such a technical term as \"voiceless pharyngeal fricative\" fails
    to have meaning to me</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOr most anybody else. Thinking about
    how it's vocalized (and hoping that nobody reading is about to have a meal...)
    I would say it sounds like the beginning of gradually trying to clear phlegm from
    your throat.  :-/\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it may be hard to decide what the new letter
    for Armenian \"should\" look like.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMashtots's shoes are certainly
    very hard to fill... The academic in question simply wanted it to look like the
    Thorn. I wasn't thrilled by that, but he was firm on it.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Had
    Armenian been written with the Cyrillic script</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich, in contrast
    to their success with the Azeris, the Soviets had the sense not to attempt with
    us!\r\n\r\nBTW your \u041F derivation escapes me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 01:48:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Why, the very idea of a favorite letter is antithetical to a type designer.
    \r\n\r\n(never mind me. I just like the sound of the word \"antithetical\" lately.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 02:30:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: My favorite letter is the one from Ed McMahon.
  created: '2012-10-10 04:04:46'
- author:
    name: Iain Farnsworth
    picture: 125713
  body: "It depends upon the typeface for me. I've always like the uppercase 'G' set
    in Univers 65. Don't know why.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, I really like the eszett (\xDF).
    Again, don't know why."
  created: '2012-10-10 17:16:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pickeeee.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 18:23:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>uch a technical term as \"voiceless pharyngeal fricative\" fails to have
    meaning to me</em>\r\n\r\nThat is why I provided the simple description of how
    the sound is produced: 'a sound produced by constricting the flow of air with
    the base of the tongue at the back of the throat'.\r\n\r\nThe only way to accurately
    describe vocalisation is to describe how sounds are produced. The technical name
    is simply a shorthand for such description. Trying to describe what the sound
    sounds like isn't helpful, because different people will have a different sense
    of what is meant by e.g. 'it sounds like the beginning of gradually trying to
    clear phlegm from your throat'. So one needs to talk about the parts of the vocal
    system and what is happening to produce a given sound, which can then be reproduced
    by anyone with a (physiologically normal) vocal system, even if the sound isn't
    part of his or her language. So, in this case, concentrate on moving the back
    of the tongue towards the back of the throat to constrict the flow of air, then
    pick a vowel and try to make a sound. :)"
  created: '2012-10-10 19:16:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The very idea of a favorite letter is antithetical to the craft of type
    design, and therefore the very idea of a favorite letter should be anathema to
    a type designer. If we're going to toss around big words here, let's do it right,
    people.</em>\r\n\r\nHmph! Well then...\r\n\r\nYou assume the common modern meaning
    of anathema, I presume, rather than its original meaning of something set aside
    as holy."
  created: '2012-10-10 19:19:42'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: It sounds something like a 'kh', then?
  created: '2012-10-10 20:04:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>BTW your \u041F derivation escapes me.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    was perhaps to trivial for you to notice. Since the Hebrew letter \"Heth\" was
    supposed to have this sound, a Latinized version of the shape would look like
    the Russian letter P, if we use the relationship between Shin and the Russian
    letter Sh as our guide.\r\n\r\n@russellm:\r\n<cite>Why, the very idea of a favorite
    letter is antithetical to a type designer.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, no. The very idea
    of a favorite letter is <em>antithetical</em> to the craft of type design, and
    therefore the very idea of a favorite letter should be <em>anathema</em> to a
    type <strong>designer</strong>.\r\n\r\nIf we're going to toss around big words
    here, let's do it <em>right</em>, people."
  created: '2012-10-10 21:53:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It sounds something like a 'kh', then?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat does that mean?
    In whose orthography? That's my point: unless you have a description of how a
    sound is made by the vocal system, you're not really describing anything unambiguously
    meaningful. For instance, if I see 'kh' I presume an aspirated velar stop, because
    that is what 'kh' most often indicates in English orthography. But the same letter
    sequence might indicate something quite different to someone else (including,
    possibly, a pharyngeal fricative). This is why the IPA alphabet exists, to provide
    symbols that correspond to the specific descriptions of how sounds are made, rather
    than the ambiguous mappings of conventional alphabets."
  created: '2012-10-10 22:10:36'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: The 'kh' I was thinking of is probably a voiceless velar fricative, if the
    'pedia is to go by.
  created: '2012-10-11 00:00:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can't clear phlegm with a \"kh\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-11 04:32:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The 'kh' I was thinking of is probably a voiceless velar fricative, if
    the 'pedia is to go by.</em>\r\n\r\nAh. So similar to the Arabic \u062D in that
    it involves constricting airflow between the tongue and another surface, but further
    forward in the mouth. I suspect a lot of English speakers trying to learn Arabic
    begin by trying to fake the \u062D sound with a velar fricative, because they're
    not used to making sounds so far back, in the throat."
  created: '2012-10-11 05:39:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And just wait till you try the \u0642.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp"
  created: '2012-10-11 06:10:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Sounds like visiting my uncle Stathis at the assisted living center.
  created: '2012-10-11 06:29:14'
- author:
    name: Typogruffer
    picture: 125697
  body: "My Latin favorite is lowercase g\r\nMy non-latin favorite is  sheen  \u0634"
  created: '2012-10-11 11:28:16'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Pharyngeal... reminds me of a time when an Icelandic TV reporter got an impromptu
    lesson in pronouncing Qaqortoq. The 'q' sounded like it came from deep in the
    throat.
  created: '2012-10-11 11:54:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I thought that the Armenian alphabet had a simple and uncontroversial origin,
    like the Glagolitic, from some obscure form of cursive Greek writing.\r\n\r\nIn
    seeking the materials from which Mesrop Mashtots worked, so that I might suggest
    how a voiceless pharyngaeal fricative would have been written in Armenian, though,
    I have found that it was not so simple.\r\n\r\nGardthausen favored Greek, but
    this was already deprecated by Taylor, who favored the advanced form of Zend found
    in the inscriptions at Kapur di Giri.\r\n\r\nAnd there is the recent theory, mentioned
    in this forum, that there is more than a mere superficial resemblance between
    Ge'ez and Armenian.\r\n\r\nSo I thought I would check on Glagolitic; surely the
    origin of that from cursive Greek is uncontroversial. And I found a paper suggesting
    that Cyril and Methodius would have been rather too late to have invented that
    script... because it derived from <em>Linear A</em>. Somewhere around Greece still,
    but...\r\n\r\nHowever, Isaac Taylor at least also exhibits the presumed cursive
    Greek antecedents of the Glagolitic letters.\r\n\r\nAnd while Mhedruli doesn't
    look much like Armenian, Hutsuri does... but am I surprised to see Georgian nationalists
    claiming Mesrop had nothing to do with the origin of their script? (Taylor feels
    he used a better version of Zend for the Georgians because with them he was working
    from a clean slate... the Armenians already using an inferior version of Zend
    to write with, Mesrop was constrained.)\r\n\r\n...the Armazi script is proposed
    as one of the more likely alternative sources of Georgian; but I've now stumbled
    on one source that says that it, rather than Zend, was what Mesrop used, in addition
    to Greek uncials, to create the <em>Armenian</em> alphabet!\r\n\r\nAt least with
    so many candidates, I should have no problem finding enough shapes with which
    to extend the Armenian alphabet so that it can be used to write Sanskrit.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    of course, let us not forget the Albanians of the Caucasus (no relation to the
    Albanians of the Balkans) and the alphabet Mesrop gave <em>them</em>."
  created: '2012-10-11 14:51:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not clear exactly what Mesrop used as inspiration; some scholars even
    claim his design was totally original* and it was only the scribes later on that
    made our script look more like others (because they were used to copying things
    in Greek, etc.). In fact it's entirely possible that Mesrop might have have yelled
    \"What the Hell are you doing?!\" at those braindead copyists.\r\n\r\n* Which
    is highly plausible because the whole reason to invent the Armenian alphabet was
    in fact to fight assimilation, and copying other scripts goes directly against
    that.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>am I surprised to see Georgian nationalists claiming
    Mesrop had nothing to do with the origin of their script?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCan
    you spot the key word in that phrase? :-)  Most Georgians had no problem accepting
    that an Armenian had designed their writing system... until we started demanding
    more respect for the Javakhk region!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I should have no problem
    finding enough shapes</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut frankly why even worry so much about
    historic precedents? To me they can only hold us back; the best shape for that
    sound would come from an analysis of what readers need today.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-11 16:46:43'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Going back to the original question, I think I like 'R' and 'e'... partly
    because I find there's so much scope for having fun in designing them; also, you
    can tell so much about a font just by looking at those two characters...\r\n\r\nMoving
    away from Latin, I'm also fond of \u306D.  (Perhaps \u3091 even more so, but that
    one isn't used in modern Japanese so I'll relegate it to an honourable mention.)"
  created: '2012-10-11 17:17:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>To me they can only hold us back; the best shape for that
    sound would come from an analysis of what readers need today.</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm.
    My thinking was simply that starting from a historical precedent, even if it came
    from a theory which would not withstand critical scrutiny, was an improvement
    on just making a shape up.\r\n\r\nYour point is definitely valid; my first reaction
    was to think that this would simply be an after-the-fact constraint to ensure
    any new shape used is legible and distinctive. On further thought, however, there's
    also the issue of the learning curve.\r\n\r\nInstead of digging into historical
    precedent to find out what Mesrop might conceivably have done, which did make
    sense for the original intended application as I understood it, <em>if</em> one
    was talking about adding new letters to Armenian for widespread adoption (which,
    incidentally, I've learned has already happened twice since Mesrop) the proper
    example to follow would be that of the Initial Teaching Alphabet, so as to avoid
    a steep learning curve.\r\n\r\nThat is, any new letters ought to resemble, although
    being differentiated from, existing letters related in sound, so that it would
    be immediately obvious what they were for."
  created: '2012-10-11 18:16:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I always enjoyed an e at the end of a line when calligraphing, crossbar flourish.
    Or an uppercase G at the beginning of a line.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2012-10-11 18:36:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>has already happened twice since Mesrop</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes,
    the \u0555 and \u0556... both of which are out of character with the rest of the
    alphabet (with the former also being a sad case of script-borrowing). Mesrop would
    never have made those that way; they are products of multiple levels of ignorance.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>any
    new letters ought to resemble, although being differentiated from, existing letters
    related in sound</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis is a classic conundrum for anybody contemplating
    the invention of letter symbols. Learning and doing are not the same, and are
    often at what I call \"90 degrees\", meaning they pull in somewhat different directions.
    A symbol that's easy to \"figure out\" because it resembles the shape of a similar
    sound becomes harder on readability when efficiency gets factored in (think speed
    and parafoveal depth) once you no longer need to make the connection. So,which
    to favor? Or rather: where to strike the balance? Which BTW is the beauty and
    power of Hangul: you can easily learn the basic alphabetic components that join
    to make up the 2-4 letter syllable shapes, but once you know a compiled syllable
    shape you can read much faster without bothering with the letters. And this is
    exactly a power that comes from conscious design, unlike the headless-chicken
    evolution typical of most scripts.\r\n\r\nFor example, is it good that the words
    \"opposite\" and \"apposite\" have opposite meanings?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-11 18:57:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>For example, is it good that the words \"opposite\" and \"apposite\"
    have opposite meanings?</em>\r\n\r\nThis seems to be a distinct sort of question
    from that regarding letter shape. Almost all languages have root systems that
    link related words, even if the relationship is one of opposition as in this case.
    Sometimes, these root systems are reflected in pronunciation, often in spelling
    (even when pronunciation changes) and sometimes both."
  created: '2012-10-11 19:23:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>the \u0555 and \u0556...</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, I counted that
    as <em>once</em>, although since it happened in the Middle Ages, the two letters
    could have been added on separate occasions.\r\n\r\nThe second time, at least
    according to Wikipedia, was \u0587 (a ligature for \u0565\u0582, I suppose) and
    \u0548\u0552 (or \u0578\u0582 in lower case) which, although looking like a digraph,
    is counted as a new letter."
  created: '2012-10-11 20:05:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, my \"apposite\"/\"opposite\" parallel was a bit... metaphorical.\r\n\r\nThe
    \u0587 is supposed to only be used like an ampersand - it's not a letter. The
    \u0548\u0552/\u0578\u0582 was a Soviet joke at our expense; it's not a single
    letter for about half of the world's Armenian population. Note BTW that the people
    who regard \u0548\u0552/\u0578\u0582 as a letter no longer regard \u0552/\u0582
    as such (which is part of the same joke).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>Note BTW that the people who regard \u0548\u0552/\u0578\u0582
      as a letter no longer regard \u0552/\u0582 as such (which is part of the same
      joke).</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm. Would this be like making QU/qu/Qu a single letter
      in English, so that we would no longer regard Q/q as a letter?\r\n\r\nOn the
      other hand, our Dutch friends <strong>do</strong> regard ij as a single letter."
    created: '2012-10-11 21:43:05'
  created: '2012-10-11 20:30:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Basically no word starts with \u0552/\u0582, and since the Soviet-era spelling
    reform (carried out in the 1930s) only has it after \u0548/\u0578 they decided
    to change the alphabet by replacing \u0552/\u0582 with \u0548\u0552/\u0578\u0582.
    BUT in the Mesropian orthography* \u0552/\u0582 is used much more. I'm a reform-minded
    person myself, but even more important is Intent, and it's no secret that the
    Soviet intent with the reform wasn't to help kids learn spelling faster, it was
    to further alienate the homeland and the diaspora. And sadly it worked, because
    even two decades after independence we're still arguing -sometimes bitterly**-
    about which spelling is Correct.\r\n\r\n* Which in Armenia is referred to as \"classical\"
    to avoid offending Mashtots.  :-/\r\n\r\n** You should see the two comments -one
    from each side- submitted to that recent Armenotype piece*** that I couldn't approve
    for posting.  :-/\r\n\r\n*** http://armenotype.com/2012/08/the-armenian-language-dilemma/\r\n\r\nIf/when
    the IJ/ij is a single letter, it should look and act like a single letter, which
    the Dutch haven't succeeded in pulling off yet. The recent resolution of the UC
    eszet is a nice contrast to that. BTW: http://typophile.com/node/34111\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-11 22:09:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's hard enough for Armenians in the diaspora to convince their children
    that continuing to use Armenian is worth the effort!\r\n\r\nTo feel that it's
    worth the effort to learn Eastern Armenian - so that there is no longer \"two
    of everything\" - and, incidentally, to adopt the unfortunate tamperings with
    the language you decry - when one speaks Western Armenian just makes it that much
    harder."
  created: '2012-10-12 11:53:24'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: For me it has to be either the "lowercase k" or the "lowercase b"
  created: '2012-10-12 17:49:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>I used to call it \"bicameral\", but Kent convinced me (via Bringhurst
    IIRC) that that's better reserved for describing writing systems with two cases
    (such as Latin and Armenian).</cite>\r\n\r\nUsing bicameral in contexts other
    than referring to legislative systems with a House of Commons or Representatives
    below, and a Senate above, risks confusion.\r\n\r\nFor example, are we talking
    about a \"g\" that hears voices?\r\n\r\nYes, that was a reference to <em>The Origin
    of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind</em> by Julian Jaynes.\r\n\r\nActually,
    though, Kent's advice makes sense - for discussions here, such as about the problems
    of Greek typography, it would be useful to have a quick, unambiguous term for
    writing systems with an upper and a lower case.\r\n\r\nIf we were to call the
    Latin script <em>polymorphic</em>, to take into account upper and lower case,
    small capitals, and italics, though, then we would run into another problem. Just
    about <em>any</em> script can be bolded for emphasis - i.e. there's no problem
    with having a bold version of Chinese characters. (And they certainly can be optically
    slanted as well, although <strong>that</strong> somewhat collides with Chinese
    typographical conventions. Also, Song typefaces could be considered analogous
    to Roman, with Kai typefaces as the equivalent of italic.)\r\n\r\nLower case is
    clearly more fundamental to the Latin script than the weight variations used for
    emphasis - and small capitals occupy a strange intermediate position."
  created: '2014-07-31 21:51:27'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I know this is an old post but I noticed some interesting statements I want
    to ask about. Perhaps some people will have the interest to respond.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>That
    is one of the reasons I have always been fascinated with the \"Galliard\" typeface,
    it is revolutionary since it dares to \"throw away\" much of the potential variation
    of the small letter a and replace that with just a uniform width straight line</blockquote>\r\nWhat
    is he referring to?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The Armenian lowercase \u0570. It has so
    many stories to tell, not least about the future.</blockquote>\r\nCould you elaborate
    a bit? I'm curious why this is your favorite.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>And upside-down,
    or in certain styles slightly rotated.</blockquote>\r\nI don't think I've seen
    an upside-down asterisk. Why do you prefer this, and what does the rotation do?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    would say it sounds like the beginning of gradually trying to clear phlegm from
    your throat. :-/ [about the pronunciation of the Arabic \u062D]</blockquote>\r\nDoes
    it sound like Dutch by any chance? ;)"
  created: '2014-07-31 22:40:46'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>i.e. there's no problem with having a bold version of Chinese
    characters. (And they certainly can be optically slanted as well, although that
    somewhat collides with Chinese typographical conventions.</blockquote>\r\nWhy
    does it collide with the Chinese typographical conventions? I never bothered to
    ask why some scripts seem less sophisticated when it comes to features and typographical
    capabilities. I can certainly see why the Chinese scripts don't have small-capitals,
    but I can barely imagine not having different ways to emphasize and distinguish
    and having wide ranges of weights.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I know the movable type
    system was first introduced in China but somehow I never realized how tedious
    printing must have been for such an elaborate logographic systems. Does anyone
    know how optical sizes were employed? Is this perhaps a reason why the typographic
    capabilities in such systems have never been expanded (as simply adding different
    pt sizes for the whole logographic system would have been an absolutely tedious
    job), or is there inherently no need for it?"
  created: '2014-07-31 22:58:30'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'About asterisk rotation: http://typophile.com/node/30176#comment-178292'
  created: '2014-07-31 23:10:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Why does it collide with the Chinese typographical conventions?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    was thinking about the practice, now generally in disuse, of writing Chinese first
    vertically and then from right to left, instead of first from left to right and
    then vertically.\r\n\r\nIn the traditional script orientation, italicization would
    not be sloping the characters in the direction of reading, which may be significant."
  created: '2014-07-31 23:19:54'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Amazing thread. Thanks for the link!
  created: '2014-07-31 23:24:16'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "\xB6 My favorite glyph is the <em>ampersand</em> in its italic form. Versatile
    & lovely!"
  created: '2014-08-01 21:03:39'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "The ampersand is great, though I don't enjoy designing it.\r\n\r\nI love
    a, g, e and B. Hmm, I only now realize they're all binocular-like, with 3 or more
    horizontals. I don't think that's a coincidence. I guess it's the amount of detail
    involved in these letters which I like."
  created: '2014-08-01 21:34:15'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "<blockquote>\xB6 My favorite glyph is the ampersand in its italic form. Versatile
    & lovely!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nEspecially\xB7from\xB7Frederic\xB7Goudy!"
  created: '2014-08-01 22:32:39'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "How awesome are these though?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand
    - Playful Ampsersand 01_4286.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand
    - Playful Ampsersand 02_5155.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-01 23:21:40'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "And here's Goudy goodness:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand
    - Goudy Aries 01_5304.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand -
    Goudy Aries 02_5401.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand - Goudy
    Aries 03_6448.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand - Goudy Aries
    04_6647.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand - Goudy Aries 05_5952.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand
    - Goudy Aries 06_4321.gif]"
  created: '2014-08-01 23:22:48'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "\xB6 All your examples of ampersands show the ancient calligraphic flavor
    of this glyph.\r\n\r\n\xB6 Thank you for your wide array of ampersands: a\xB7nice\xB7bunch\xB7of\xB7flowers."
  created: '2014-08-02 10:21:33'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I just found out the "Goudy" ampersands I showed are actually part of [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/p22/goudy-aries/|P22
    Goudy Aries]].
  created: '2014-08-02 16:40:22'
- author:
    name: jimmydurant
  body: "Many years ago an academic requested that I add a letter to one of my Armenian
    fonts; he was writing a paper about pre-Mashtots Armenian and claimed that we
    used to have a sound like the Arabic \u062D (which I'm not sure how to properly
    describe) that got lost when our alphabet was implemented. According to his research
    the word for \"lion\" for example (\u0561\u057C\u056B\u0582\u056E, which sounds
    like \"arrouydz\") originally started with that sound instead of an \"a\" sound
    (which actually makes sense if you know what \u062D sounds like :-).\r\n\r\nexamples
    of danish letters check out here \r\nhttp://www.laan-info.dk/\r\nhttp://www.laanogsparpenge.dk/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-04 17:22:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Martin, the Armenian lowercase \u0570 is my \"favorite\" because in most
    designs (especially these days) it is a glyph that's fully Latinized, and the
    furthest from what it needs to be; this is partly because its authentic form is
    so intractable (which to me actually makes it valuable) and also because it's
    the same sound as the Latin \"h\". But as a result of the debasement it suffers,
    the \u0570 is also the key to our typographic salvation. When enough of us start
    making it correctly, it will mean we're finally on the right track again.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that it's the first letter of my name is a bonus.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-06 01:07:01'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "I've always had a fondness for the <em>eth</em> and the <em>thorn</em>. Tossed
    out of the English alphabet like a couple of lost boys from a polygamous sect,
    they've hung on for years in Icelandic living a lonely and isolated existence.
    They might not be the prettiest letters or the most fun to draw, but I feel sorry
    for them and think they deserve a second chance.\r\n\r\nMaybe I should also feel
    bad for all those old Cyrillic letters that were cast aside, but I don't. Most
    were ugly, deformed and deserving of a dignified burial."
  created: '2014-08-06 05:38:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "One problem is that the distinction between voiced and unvoiced <em>th</em>
    in English is no longer phonemic. So if English did feel a need to have a letter
    for \"th\", they would probably take the Greek theta instead, it being more well-known,
    since only one letter and not two are wanted.\r\n\r\nThe lower-case version from
    Greek, though, wouldn't fit with the Latin alphabet well, so they would likely
    take the lower case of the Cyrillic letter removed from Russian by the new orthography
    instead! (So that gives us \u0472\u0473.) And they would probably take the <em>sh</em>
    letter \u0428\u0448 and the <em>ch</em> letter \u0427\u0447 from current Russian,
    and maybe also <em>zh</em>, \u0416\u0436, since these are other sounds used by
    English which don't have a single letter."
  created: '2014-08-06 15:34:10'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "As long as the Icelandic language exists, so will '[Ee]th' and '[Tt]horn'.
    Sure, the '[Dd]croat' can sub for the former \u2013 and has, on recent occasion
    (read: Facebook) \u2013 but they are not scraping landfills for a living up here
    in the Little White North."
  created: '2014-08-06 15:42:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If we had a good king/queen, he/she could reintroduce the thorn and eth back
    into English where they belong. Cheapskate English printers using canned Dutch
    fonts ruined everything.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-06 15:48:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I knew we could count on you. T\xE9 ;-)"
  created: '2014-08-06 17:04:27'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "Yes, thank you T\xE9 for keeping the eth and thorn safe and warm during their
    exile. We owe everyone in Iceland a debt of gratitude for providing gainful employment
    to these two castaways."
  created: '2014-08-06 19:37:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I was wondering what on Earth a [Dd]croat was, but I see that Croatian has
    the letter \u0110 or \u0110\u0111 (U+0110, U+0111) which (in upper case) does
    look a lot like an eth, \xD0\xF0 (U+00D0, U+00F0), as opposed to a thorn, \xDE\xFE
    (U+00DE, U+00FE). In looking those up, though, I see there's another forgotten
    letter - wynn - \u01F7\u01BF (U+01F7, U+01BF) for which we might long.\r\n\r\nAnd
    not far from Wynn, there's an African D, \u0189 (U+0189) as well!\r\n\r\nAh, but
    Wynn simply represents the same sound as the letter W; like Thorn, it was borrowed
    from the runic alphabet. So, since we already have W, there's no demand for Wynn.\r\n\r\nStill,
    that suggests that the rune Ing could be used as the basis for adding a letter
    to the Latin alphabet for the consonant cluster -ng at the ends of some words."
  created: '2014-08-06 22:14:29'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>Still, that suggests that the rune Ing could be used as the
    basis for adding a letter to the Latin alphabet for the consonant cluster -ng
    at the ends of some words.</p></blockquote>\r\nThat spot would be reserved to
    Benjamin Franklin\u2019s eng:\r\nhttp://steve-lovelace.com/modern-spelling-reforms/"
  created: '2014-08-06 22:55:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: In that case, one might also go to Pitman's Phonotypic Alphabet for Esh and
    Ezh instead of to Cyrillic...
  created: '2014-08-07 09:31:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>since we already have W, there's no demand for Wynn.</p></blockquote>\r\nPersonally,
    I would welcome the substitution of |w| with a \u201Cproper\u201D letter: it always
    seemed to me a bit of \u201Cfrankenglyph\u201D, or a very bad case of keming*.
    Ugly, uninspired, underdeveloped, and too wide. One exception is perhaps the cursive
    \u201Casymmetrical w\u201D: https://www.flickr.com/photos/52362783@N00/6129692536/\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.ironicsans.com/2008/02/idea_a_new_typography_term.html\r\n\r\nLet\u2019s
    try:)\r\nPersonally, I \u01BFould \u01BFelcome the substitution of |w| \u01BFith
    a \u201Cproper\u201D letter: it al\u01BFays seemed to me a bit of \u201Cfrankenglyph\u201D,
    or a very bad case of keming. Ugly, uninspired, underdeveloped, and too \u01BFide.
    \r\n\r\nUhm\u2026 a bit too \u201Cp\u201D to \u01BFork \u01BFell."
  created: '2014-08-07 10:50:03'
- author:
    name: white055
    picture: 127604
  body: I'd go for all letters, every letter is important & also full of potential.
  created: '2014-08-13 07:56:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed. But you still choose only one to marry. Or at most four.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-13 14:40:38'
date: '2012-07-28 03:47:38'
node_type: forum
title: What is your favorite letter?

---
