---
author:
  name: Gunarta
  picture: 121772
body: "Hi People!\r\n\r\nWhy Roman typography is the most developed typography between
  other writing system? The alphabetic writing system that we use today,\r\ni started
  asking that for my self days ago and i got no answer. Thank you."
comments:
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "I'd imagine it's a combination of being:\r\nMost widely used\r\nLess complex
    than other scripts\r\nLess characters than most scripts - ie. quicker to build
    fonts\r\nRight place, right time"
  created: '2012-07-29 10:54:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>most developed typography</blockquote>\r\nPlease define better."
  created: '2012-07-29 12:45:15'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Because of the power and reach of ancient Rome.
  created: '2012-07-29 14:30:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good question.\r\n\r\nOf course it's a combination of many things, including
    luck! But also the Industrial Revolution, which came from the West's strong materialistic
    streak.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-29 15:03:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://typophile.com/files/Cerdik%20Jawi.pdf\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/Silang%20Kata%20Kelopak_0.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-29 15:15:58'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I still disagree with the assumption, at least in its vague formulation.\r\nHowever,
    I will point out that the concept of \u201Cdevelopment\u201D itself is typically
    a western concept, and since latin alphabet is the western script of choice, saying
    that its typography is the \u201Cmost developed\u201D is something just short
    of a tautology. "
  created: '2012-07-29 15:33:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's nice to hear this sort of thing from a Westerner, and I'm no fan of
    chauvinism, but some cultures are better at some things than others. For example
    Armenian culture is highly developed* in many ways, and more developed in type
    design than many other cultures, but still not as developed as with Latin.\r\n\r\n*
    Which BTW is not a Western concept, it's a human concept. In fact animals probably
    have it too, it's just hard for us to tell.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-29 15:41:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since the Latin alphabet has but 26 letters, it is clearly much easier to
    design a new font for it than it is for Chinese, Japanese, or even Korean.\r\n\r\nMany
    other scripts, though, aren't <em>much</em> more complex than the Roman script;
    Thai, Tibetan, Devanagari, Burmese, Arabic, Hebrew, Armenian, Georgian, and Amharic,
    as examples.\r\n\r\nHere, \"more widely used\" is clearly <em>a</em> factor. But
    another factor, not noted in the list given above, is that the Latin alphabet,
    being used in the United States and Western Europe, <strong>is the alphabet of
    most of the world's richest countries</strong>.\r\n\r\nThus, there is more money
    to spend on developing new typefaces for newspapers, magazines, books, and advertising
    than in most other places. Japan is also a wealthy country, but its script has
    many more glyphs, and Israel, Georgia, and Armenia belong to the developed world
    as well, but their scripts belong only to one small country in each case.\r\n\r\nThus,
    if we confine ourselves to objective measures - the number of available typefaces,
    the economic importance of type design - the Latin alphabet is far ahead for obvious
    reasons. The objection that quantity is not quality can be made, however, and
    it's true that despite the handicaps noted, there are plenty of good typefaces
    available for many of the other script systems noted.\r\n\r\nThe Cyrillic and
    Greek scripts, which I didn't give as examples above, are less widely used than
    the Roman script as well, but they're so closely related that a large number of
    typefaces are shared between all three writing systems."
  created: '2012-07-29 21:00:11'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "First, we talk about the *English* alphabet rather than about the Latin.\r\n\r\nLatin:
    A B C D E F (G) H I (K) L M N O P Q R S T V X\r\nEnglish: A B C D E F G H I J
    K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z\r\n\r\nSecond: I don\u2019t think that graphical
    aspects do count much here. Latin/English (bicameral!) is less complicated than
    Chinese but more demanding than e.g. Hebrew. So what?\r\n\r\nThird: I think it
    has much to do with that:\r\n\u2013 Roman imperialism \u2013 spread of the Latin
    alphabet;\r\n\u2013 English colonialism \u2013 spread of the English alphabet;\r\n\u2013
    US-American \u2026 world dominance \u2013 further spread of the English alphabet.\r\nThere
    you go.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-29 21:16:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I wouldn't want to speak of the English alphabet, because that would imply
    the Germans and the French and the Italians obtained their writing systems from
    the English-speaking countries, which, of course, is nonsense.\r\n\r\nEven if
    we are responsible for the letters J and W. I'm not sure we are, and I'm quite
    certain U isn't a British invention, but instead originated on the Continent after
    the fall of Rome.\r\n\r\nEDIT: W might have originated from uu in English; U,
    however, was definitely a Continental invention from the Middle Ages, and J, according
    to Wikipedia, turned up first in German, then Italian, and then French before
    the English borrowed it from them.\r\n\r\nEDIT: It may also be noted that there
    is an urgent need to add the following letters to the Latin alphabet:\r\n\r\n\u0411\u0431,
    \u0413\u0433, \u0414\u0434, and \u0417\u0437\r\n\r\n...in order to replace b,
    g, d and z in Pinyin. In this way, the Latin alphabet will have b, \u0431, and
    p as three distinct letters to properly represent the three consonants of this
    type in the Shanghai dialect, assigning the voiced one to English b, which it
    matches in sound.\r\n\r\nOf course, without worrying about Chinese, just to represent
    the sounds used in English, we need to add\r\n\r\n\u0416\u0436, \u0427\u0447,
    and \u0428\u0448\r\n\r\n\u0398\u03B8 is also needed, but here, instead of going
    to the Greek alphabet, we could just go to Icelandic (and older forms of English)
    to get \xDE\xFE."
  created: '2012-07-29 22:59:17'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Korean also has a three-way contrast between plosives (and even an affricate).
    They solve the issue nicely by just doubling the consonants. So the word for \"lid\",
    \uB69C\uAED1 [t\u0348uk\u0348\u0259\u014B] with tensed t and k, is transcribed
    \"ttukkeong\". With no need to borrow anything from Russian. \r\n\r\nForeigners
    here in Korea have enough trouble figuring out the existing Romanization, and
    it's quite simple. I can't imagine if they tried to add entirely new letters.
    Not to mention that no one would be able to type \"\u0434u\u0433eong\"."
  created: '2012-07-30 15:08:38'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>English colonialism \u2013 spread of the English alphabet;</cite>\r\nAnd
    French colonialism, Spanish colonialism, Dutch colonialism, German colonialism,
    Danish colonialism, Portuguese colonialism, Italian colonialism, Belgian colonialism
    ....\r\n\r\n\r\nIndustrialization of publishing, completion in the printing industry
    &  advertizing."
  created: '2012-07-30 15:39:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The exact ideas in this thread were addressed by Henry Lewis Bullen a century
    ago in the passage quoted below. I find this passage really insightful. At the
    same time, the Orientalist assumptions expressed\u2014typical of the time, 1912\u2014are
    really distasteful in the context of colonialism. \r\n\r\n<blockquote>\"The model
    of roman types is at once the most rigid in its elementary lines, and the most
    flexible in its expression.\r\n\r\n\"If we except the Greek capitals (which were
    parents of the Roman capitals) and Russian (which is also derived from the Greek),
    all other alphabets now in use are solely cursives, in the sense that they are
    constructed with the purpose of being readily produced by pen or brush, even in
    their most formal uses. Hebrew characters are... representative of hundreds of
    oriental alphabets similarly cursive in their structures, each of which conforms
    with an almost unvarying model. None of these lend themselves to decorative effects.
    While most of them are graceful, none afford scope to the designer; seemingly
    fluid, they are actually unyielding. They fitly typify the oriental civilizations,
    which, like their alphabets, had become stereotyped long before the invention
    of typography, and have remained practically unchanged ever since. \r\n\r\n\"Opposed
    to these numerous and more ancient oriental cursive characters is the solitary
    roman letter model, structurally more severe and less graceful, seemingly less
    pliant, but actually more expressive. The roman letter is exactly typical of the
    ever-changing, ever-progressing occidental civilization; and probably the models
    of the characters by means of which the occidentals have been educated for centuries
    have had a stirring and beneficial psychological influence, which would have been
    lacking if Europe had adopted an alphabet purely cursive in its structure.\"</blockquote>"
  created: '2012-07-30 18:04:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice quote - thanks Craig.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of chauvinism (still prevalent
    two decades later) here's a gem from Stanley Morison that I just <em>had</em>
    to quote in my \"Latinization: Prevention and Cure\" piece:\r\n\r\n\"The Roman
    alphabet is not merely in possession, but it is in possession by right of conquest.
    The conquest was not made possible, or even expedited, by external authority;
    the victory of the Roman letter was due to its inherent flexibility and rationalism.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-30 18:11:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The bicameral alphabet predates typography.\r\n\r\nAnd the innovations of
    employing contrast in layouts through mixing upright with italic (16th century)
    and different weights (regular with bold, 19th century) did not develop in the
    fraktur culture of northern Europe, which also used the Roman alphabet.\r\n\r\nSo
    it is the Antiqua which has developed typographically, not the Roman alphabet
    (Latin script) per se.\r\n\r\nHowever, it could be argued that the Fraktur has
    developed more variety of letterform than the Antiqua, especially after perusing
    <em>Fraktur Mon Amour</em>. How much of this variety existed in fonts prior to
    the 20th century, or was it more of a script phenomenon?\r\n\r\nLatin script scripts
    are something else again, but their development has been primarily outside typography.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-30 18:59:09'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I am writing an essay on the development of Humanist typography, which should
    answer your question. Like so often, it is a combination of different events in
    history.
  created: '2012-07-30 22:45:24'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Just for your information, Humanist typography is often referred to as Roman
    typography. I prefer the term Humanist, since it is much more true to the origins
    of it.
  created: '2012-07-30 22:49:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Humanist typography is often referred to as Roman typography. I prefer
    the term Humanist, since it is much more true to the origins of it.</em>\r\n\r\nNote
    that the use of the term 'roman' to refer to a style of type and typography references
    not classical Rome but the development of the first humanist types by Sweynheim
    and Pannartz at Subiaco, just outside Rome, and then within the city itself. The
    Subiaco types have been described as 'half-Roman', i.e. somewhere between blackletter
    and the contemporary humanist book hand. The types they made in Rome after 1467
    are the first 'roman' types, and strongly influenced Jenson, who really established
    the style.\r\n\r\nSo I'd say that 'humanist' and 'roman' are entirely synonymous
    in the context of typography: the one describes the cultural origin and the other
    the geographical origin."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: Any idea when the w in roman or in fraktur appeared for the first time,
      indicating a w sound, and not a Latin uu?
    created: '2012-09-05 12:32:11'
  created: '2012-07-31 01:25:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Germs, guns and steel. Then ASCII.
  created: '2012-07-31 03:54:01'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "<em>Of course, [...] just to represent the sounds used in English, we need
    to add\r\n\u0416\u0436, \u0427\u0447, and \u0428\u0448</em>\r\nWe have them in
    Latin already: \u017E \u010D \u0161.\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-31 08:48:24'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thank you John. How do you know all these things? The esay I'm writing should've
    been written by you, I guess :)\r\n\r\nI guess another reason to use 'Humanist'
    rather than 'Roman' is because the term 'Roman' is also used for 'upright', as
    in, the opposite of Italic."
  created: '2012-07-31 17:31:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Yes, if you''re going to talk about both roman and italic, then humanist
    is a good term: roman type is based on the humanist formal bookhand, and italic
    type is based on the humanist informal secretary hand.'
  created: '2012-07-31 17:56:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@froo:\r\n<cite>We have them in Latin already: \u017E \u010D \u0161.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that's true; but presumably accented letters are confusing, and so each sound
    should have a separate letter all its own, rather than borrowing a letter for
    another sound just by putting an accent on it.\r\n\r\nInstead, to avoid what happens
    with Vietnamese, accents would be reserved for use as tone marks - so that the
    Latin alphabet would be fully suited for writing Chinese, which is what started
    me on this.\r\n\r\nOf course, when it comes to vowel sounds, on which I did not
    touch, wholesale borrowing from, say, Greek would be required in order to add
    extra vowels to the language. Maybe Armenian too!\r\n\r\nThe idea being to have
    something like the Shaw alphabet, but composed entirely of conventional and pre-existing
    letters. And with a few extra letters for non-English sounds like the German U-umlaut
    (also used in Chinese!) and the Russian yerry (\u042B\u044B)."
  created: '2012-07-31 19:00:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My kind of thinking.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-31 19:02:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026wholesale borrowing from, say, Greek\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nTrissino
    (16th century) proposed omega for long \u201Co\u201D.\r\nNot adopted, but his
    \u201Cj\u201D and \u201Cv\u201D were added.\r\n\r\nIcenlandic has letters to differentiate
    two \u201Cth\u201D sounds, but that practice died out elsewhere."
  created: '2012-07-31 19:51:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Means, Need, Money\r\n\r\nCommerce created a greater need for written/printed
    documents;  Technology of industrial Revolution created the means; Money and notoriety
    were the motivation.\r\n\r\nThe countries with the greatest of these were more
    motivated and capable of pursuing it. They were the same countries who used the
    Latin script. The Dutch, the Spaniards, the French, the Italians, the Germans,
    and the English (and later the Americas) had motive and means."
  created: '2012-07-31 21:25:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>that practice died out elsewhere.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt didn't
    die out, it was killed. By English cheapness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-31 22:02:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "am i the only one that loves the irony of a question about \u201Cdevelopment\u201D
    when it is posted using poor capitalization?"
  created: '2012-07-31 22:14:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I repeat, the issue is NOT one of writing systems, because the Fraktur genre
    uses the Latin writing system, but the Western countries that used Fraktur did
    not develop their typography to the extent that those using the Antiqua did\u2014with
    contrast of slant (roman vs. italic) and weight (regular vs. bold).\r\n\r\nWould
    it not have been possible for a contrast-based typography using fraktur fonts
    to develop? After all, fraktur may be slanted and have varying weights.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-31 22:41:00'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "<em>@ quadibloc:</em>\r\nI understand your idea, so I agree with non-Latin
    additions like \u0436, \u0447, \u0448. But I deeply disagree with the \"Anglocentric\"
    approach. For example: English, French and Polish/German letter j represents 3
    different sounds - \u045F, \u0436, j (that can be found in Serbian). Which spellings
    to reform? When you propose adding the extra letter \u044B to the alphabet (which
    sound is quite rare in English, indeed), you save English spelling (inconsistent
    here), while razing broad and consistent use of y in Polish, Czech and Slovak,
    where it sounds like \u044B ...\r\n\r\nBack to the topic: I think there have been
    means, good will and conducive atmosphere."
  created: '2012-08-03 10:34:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@froo:\r\nYou raise a good point. But I don't know how to address it.\r\n\r\nIf
    I add letters to the Latin alphabet in order to represent additional sounds in
    a phonetic manner, one sound being assigned to one letter, then clearly <em>an</em>
    assignment of sounds to letters is being made.\r\n\r\nAnd, as you've pointed out,
    the pre-existing assignment of sounds to letters in different languages using
    the Latin alphabet differs. So, which letters to add and what sounds to assign
    to them would also differ.\r\n\r\nI suppose that this could work, though, if the
    speakers of different languages reviewed their requirements independently, with
    the result being that some added letters - like some existing letters, most notably
    W in French - would not be used in all Latin-alphabet languages.\r\n\r\nNote that
    I've tried to address <em>both</em> foreign-language transliteration and spelling
    reform; both areas have different needs, even if additional letters seeming to
    be useful is common to both."
  created: '2012-08-03 13:35:39'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>The idea being to have something like the Shaw alphabet, but
    composed entirely of conventional and pre-existing letters. And with a few extra
    letters for non-English sounds like the German U-umlaut (also used in Chinese!)
    and the Russian yerry (\u042B\u044B).</blockquote>Sounds like a project of an
    <a href=\"http://visiblelanguagejournal.com/web/abstracts/abstract/standardization_of_alphabetic_graphemes\">international
    phonematic alphabet</a> proposed by Telingater in 1965."
  created: '2012-08-03 14:17:16'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: 'Wow, I have found this: [[http://books.google.pl/books?hl=pl&id=mJ0VAAAAYAAJ&jtp=xxi#v=onepage&q&f=false|The
    anti-absurd or phrenotypic English pronouncing & orthographical dictionary]],
    from 1845 !'
  created: '2012-08-16 08:53:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Short answer: because Roman Law is subject to creative misinterpretation
    through the medium of language.\r\n\r\nE.g., the creative, linguistic misinterpretation
    of the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution, which revolves around
    an implicit condition phrase, whose sole ambiguity revolves around a participle:
    intentionally impaired inference and the mystery of \"being.\"\r\n\r\nOTOH, George
    Zimmerman's defense fund is running dangerously low."
  created: '2012-08-16 13:18:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@froo:\r\n<cite>Wow, I have found this: The anti-absurd or phrenotypic English
    pronouncing & orthographical dictionary, from 1845!</cite>\r\nAnd, of course,
    one interesting thing about it that is immediately obvious to the people on this
    forum is that the many new symbols added to the alphabet were all formed by turning
    existing letters upside-down, which, of course, did not require the expensive
    cutting of new symbols in the lead type era."
  created: '2012-08-16 19:35:29'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Indeed.\r\nBy the way, I don't remember the details, but always when it comes
    to question about the success of the Roman typography, I recall the story of the
    first printer of Istanbul: After the Battle of Vienna, the ruler of the Ottoman
    Empire began to realize the failure and backwardness of the state. Then a Hungarian
    convert (I don't remember what his name was) entered the scene, offering printing
    technology, that could address the desired educational and informational issues.
    Since the introduction of printing could threaten mass riots (there were 3000
    copyists employed in Istanbul), the Sultan agreed to print only the clearly secular
    materials. As can be easily guessed, the project has not led to success ..."
  created: '2012-08-17 11:41:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@froo:\r\n<cite>Then a Hungarian convert (I don't remember what his name
    was) entered the scene, offering printing technology,</cite>\r\n\r\nFor a moment,
    I thought you might have meant Ohannis M\xFChendis-o\u011Flu, but he isn't Hungarian.
    But I see it was Ibrahim M\xFCteferrika that you meant."
  created: '2012-08-17 12:55:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hovhannes Muhendisian -the first person able and allowed to print in Arabic
    script in the Ottoman empire- was Armenian.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-17 13:59:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Yes. Not only is that ironic, but the spelling of his name that you used lets
    me learn that a noted modern composer is Armenian.
  created: '2012-08-17 19:14:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, M\xFCteferrika preceded Muhendisian, but as I understand it there
    was a gap between them during which it was again forbidden to print Arabic script.
    They were both remarkable men."
  created: '2012-08-17 19:50:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the difference might have been that Muhendisian was allowed to print
    the Qur'aan. I'll ping the expert...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-17 19:55:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "One further note re. M\xFCteferrika: his punchcutter is recorded as having
    been an Ottoman Jew. If anyone comes across any further information about this
    man, I would be very interested."
  created: '2012-08-17 23:01:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thomas: Wow, what a great mini-lesson! Thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-17 23:22:00'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: Maybe try "neo-Carolingian" in stead of "Roman".
  created: '2012-08-18 08:19:06'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: The capital letters aren't neo-Carolingian.
  created: '2012-08-18 09:08:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Neither are the small letters, having already existed as uncial.\r\n\r\nBut
    the writing system we use now has both small letters and capital letters, so it's
    not the one the Romans used - so the point raised is valid.\r\n\r\nHowever, I
    would agree that it is picky - the small letters also derived from Roman writing,
    if by a different path; it's not as if we're writing with twenty-six new symbols
    commissioned by Charlemagne.\r\n\r\nOf course, he <em>did</em> commission a brand-new
    alphabet of his own (with <em>twenty-four</em> characters), but that one was used
    as a cipher for secure communications."
  created: '2012-08-18 17:50:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just use \"Latin\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-18 17:51:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Ex nihilo, nihil fit.
  created: '2012-08-18 18:01:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "M\xFCteferrika was a Transylvanian Hungarian Unionist Protestant, who fled
    to the Ottoman Empire when the Austrian Catholic Habsburg Empire took over. Around
    that time he converted to Islam, which gave him access to Islamic script expertise,
    the key for creating acceptable Arabic typography for the Ottoman Empire. Previous
    printers of Arabic in Europe and (potential) Arabic printers in the Middle East
    (Jews, Greeks and Armenians in Istanbul and Syriac and and Catholic Christians
    in Syria-Lebanon) did not have this expertise - which apparently was very difficult
    to acquire for non-Muslims.\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1lJsfUQ-qqw\r\nThe
    Ottoman authorities were keenly aware of the strategic importance of what we would
    now call Information Technology, but they were less then impressed by the graphic
    atrocities resulting from unfamiliarity with Islamic script practice.  According
    to Orlin Sabev, the Ottoman Authorities had no issue acquiring any technology
    from unbelievers as long as it served their purpose: the Ottoman armed forces
    were the first in the world to be fully equipped with fire arms, therefore opposition
    to printing was not motivated by Islam but by functionality: type without the
    correct script architecture was useless. The Ottomans were in fact keen on mass
    producing the Koran, if possible using printing technology, as that could be a
    powerful tool in spreading Islam (unlike the Catholic authorities, who discouraged
    the laymen to read the Holy Books). However, although M\xFCteferrika's type was
    structurally sound - unlike Eurabic and Syrian-Lebanese efforts, which broke many
    rules of Islamic script architecture - the calligraphic quality was not up to
    Koranic standards. That is why it was not allowed to be used for religious work.
    Consequently, M\xFCteferrika printed mainly strategic materials (dictionaries,
    atlases, grammars, descriptions of foreign lands, etc). Following the closure
    of M\xFCteferrika's printing shop, work continued with the same or very similarly
    structured typefaces. According to U\u011Fur Derman, Ottoman Sultan Selim III
    was so concerned about the low quality of Arabic type, that he ordered the best
    Ottoman typographer/punch-cutter of his realm - yes! an Armenian - Poghos Arabo\u011Flu
    (http://www.genocide-museum.am/eng/g_brief_08.php) to cut punches after the calligraphy
    of Hattat Deli Osman Efendi (quoting Derman off the top of my head).  This produced
    a much better result, but it was indeed the Armenian Hovhannes/Ohanes M\xFChendisyan/M\xFChendiso\u011Flu
    who created the breakthrough for the acceptance of Arabic type throughout the
    Ottoman domains (1866). \r\n\r\nSummarizing, there was a three-stage development
    of Arabic typography with the required script architecture, each of them the result
    of interaction by a typographic using Western technology with direct access to
    Islamic script expertise: \r\n1. 1730's - M\xFCteferrika, a polymath familiar
    with typography but most likely not an experienced printer himself, who was able
    to learn the basics of Arabic calligraphy (from experts) after his conversion
    to Islam, but he did not succeed in getting the aesthetics right. He only worked
    on naskh/nesih, which he managed to reproduce structurally correct, but not well
    shaped.\r\n2. 1790's - Arabo\u011Flu, a famous Armenian printer, was ordered to
    work with Deli Osman. I am still studying the nature of his work, but clearly
    it was not the breakthrough. It is remarkable that, apart from naskh/nesih, he
    worked on (nas)ta`liq - one of the key scripts of the period.\r\n3. 1860's - M\xFChendiso\u011Flu,
    the dean of Armenian printers and creator of impressive (nas)ta`liq type, closely
    collaborated with the top calligrapher of his day, Mustafa Izzet Efendi on naskh/nesih.
    I do not know yet what the nature of their relationship and collaboration was.
    From the material in my possession it is visible that, though M\xFChendiso\u011Flu
    cut all the necessary sorts for a perfect rendering of Islamic script structure,
    his mastery of the system was imperfect. He frequently uses correct forms in positions
    where they do not belong. Clearly it took an Islamic upbringing to master this
    writing system.\r\n\r\nNone of them ever printed the Koran, but I do have a Lebanese
    printed Gospel dating from the 1890's in a M\xFChendisyan (derived?) typeface.
    \r\n\r\nThe first typeset Koran was printed in Russia in the end of the 18th century
    probably by and/or for the Saint Petersburg Tatar Turkic community, with type
    imported from Germany that had all the typical European defects. The same type
    was still in use in Kazan (capital of Tatarstan) in the early 1990's. The same
    typographic style is used by Russian orientalists for Persian texts, notably the
    first volume of the two part \u041F\u0435\u0440\u0441\u0438\u0434\u0441\u043A\u043E-\u0420\u0443\u0441\u0441\u043A\u0438\u0439
    \u0421\u043B\u043E\u0432\u0430\u0440\u044C by \u041C.\u0410. \u0413\u0430\u0444\u0444\u0430\u0440\u043E\u0432.
    It forms the basis of the persian flavour os simplified naskh, called kitabi.
    \ \r\n\r\nThe first typeset Koran in the Arabic world was printed in Egypt after
    the collapse of the Ottoman world, in 1924. Apparently, the Ottoman objections
    against inferior script architecture were dropped in favour of orthographic precision
    (tajweed), see:\r\nhttp://dl.dropbox.com/u/9225177/Cairo_Koran_Orthographic_Rules_FINALoct2009.pdf\r\nThe
    typeface used for this Koran conforms dramatically better to Arabic script architecture
    than what is used by Dutch, German and French printers. It is claimed to be cut
    after the handwriting of the great Ottoman calligrapher Abd\xFClaziz Efendi. However,
    while there is a visible relationship between M\xFChendiso\u011Flu's nask/nesih
    and Mustafa Izzet Efendi's calligraphy, there is no such match between this typeface
    and the hand of Aziz. Moreover, e.g., a publication printed in Vienna (Theodor
    N\xF6ldeke's Zur Grammatic des classischen Arabisch) in 1897 uses a very similar,
    M\xFChendiso\u011Flu-inspired typeface - minus the necessary Islamic script architecture:
    like in M\xFChendiso\u011Flu's case, all the shapes seem to be there, but, typical
    for Europeans, the awareness of the system was absent."
  created: '2012-08-18 20:49:34'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> M\xFCteferrika: his punchcutter is recorded as having been an Ottoman Jew.
    If anyone comes across any further information about this man, I would be very
    interested.\r\n\r\nJohn,\r\n\r\nThe Jewish  punchcutter & printer: Jonah ben Jacob
    Ashkenazi (was born in Zalosce, Poland  -  now Zaliztsi, Ukraine;  also known
    as Zalozcy, and particularly in older Jewish sources Zalozitz; was among those
    who cast the first Turkish type)\r\nJonah ben Jacob Ashkenazi contributed significantly
    to the revival of the  Ladino language &   literature. "
  created: '2012-08-18 21:46:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thank you very much, David!\r\n\r\nTom, there's an entry on Jonah ben Jacob
    Ashkenazi in Brill's <em>Encyclopedia of Jews in the Islamic World</em>, which
    perhaps gives a detailed account of his collaboration with M\xFCteferrika?"
  created: '2012-08-18 22:17:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@oldnick:\r\n<cite>Ex nihilo, nihil fit.</cite>\r\n\r\nergo\r\n\r\nthe statement\r\n\r\n\"...somewhere
    in my youth or childhood, I must have done something good\"\r\n\r\nmust have been
    true of the future Maria von Trapp.\r\n\r\nOf course, vacuum fluctuations have
    somewhat weakened this as an argument for the existence of God..."
  created: '2012-08-19 01:21:30'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "re. collaboration with M\xFCteferrika.\r\n\r\nJohn,\r\n\r\n\r\nDissertation
    by  Prof. Wayne H. Osborn --The Type of Calligraphy: Writing, Print, and Technologies
    of the Arabic Alphabet. University of CA, San Diego (2008) --  <a href=\"http://explore.georgetown.edu/people/who3/?PageTemplateID=310\r\n\">currently
    Georgetown University</a>\r\n\r\n\"Ibrahim employed a number of local jewish  printers....The
    chief typesetter was Yonah ben Yakov Ashkenazi and he remained employed by the
    press until Ibrahim's death in 1746....\r\n\r\n\"Working with Yonah, Ibrahim produced
    a typeface that more carefully reflected the contemporary naskh style of Ottoman
    scribes.... The full set of type employes over 500 glyphs.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-20 00:34:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Thomas Milo:\r\n<cite>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1lJsfUQ-qqw]]</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    was surprised to see the English word \"role\" spelled \"r\xF4le\" in the title
    of the video.\r\n\r\nI had seen the preservation of the accent from the original
    French word in English... in the works of Edgar Rice Burroughs, from the early
    part of the twentieth century."
  created: '2012-08-20 00:52:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Jonah ben Jacob Ashkenazi was a printer and publisher who helped to make
    Istanbul a center of Hebrew printing in the Ottoman Empire. He was born in Zalosce,
    Poland (now Zaliztsi, Ukraine), to an Ashkenazi family, and later emigrated to
    Istanbul. In 1710, Ashkenazi engraved movable-type settings in Hebrew and decorations
    for title pages, and with these founded a printing press in the city. During his
    first two years in Istanbul, he worked in partnership with a Jew from Vienna,
    Naphtali ben Azriel. Ashkenazi later moved his press north of the city, to Ortak\xF6y.
    \r\n\r\nSource:\r\nLeah Bornstein-Makovetsky. \" Ashkenazi, Jonah ben Jacob.\"
    Encyclopedia of Jews in the Islamic World. Executive Editor Norman A. Stillman.
    Brill Online , 2012. Reference.  August 2012 \r\nhttp://referenceworks.brillonline.com/entries/encyclopedia-of-jews-in-the-islamic-world/ashkenazi-jonah-ben-jacob-SIM_0002420\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-20 11:01:44'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "PS Proper name of the town where Jonah ben Jacob Ashkenazi was born is: Za\u0142o\u017Ace
    (Podole voivodship)"
  created: '2012-08-20 11:16:41'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "<em>a Jew from <strong>Vienna</strong>, Naphtali ben Azriel</em>\r\nFrom
    <strong>Vilna</strong> (Vilnius), the capital of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania,
    an important cultural centre of Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, a kind of a second
    Basel in 16th century, called sometimes, until the World War II - \"Jerusalem
    of the North\"."
  created: '2012-08-21 09:34:34'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: 'Maybe "Roman" was best adapted to technology, i.e. lead, trashing all ligatures,
    abbreviations, embellishments, inventing new characters where necessary. Adapting
    quite well to "art" or style periods. Maybe "Roman" was just "most dynamic"? '
  created: '2012-08-22 07:10:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: 'It''s of course the other way around: the technology emerged in a Roman world
    and primarily adapted for Latin script. '
  created: '2012-08-27 15:18:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Thomas Milo:\r\n<cite>It's of course the other way around: the technology
    emerged in a Roman world and primarily adapted for Latin script.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    certainly is true that the technology was developed in areas that used the Latin
    script. However, except for Georgian, which avoids the need for lower case, you
    can't get much simpler than the version of the Latin script used in the English-speaking
    world.\r\n\r\nArabic, Devanagari, Korean, Chinese - they all require more flexibility
    or more glyphs. So I don't think it's possible to say that had typewriters or
    Monotype casters been invented first in those parts of the world, they would have
    served those languages well, at the same cost and complexity as the Latin alphabet
    was served - which would have to be true if the apparent claim, that the difficulties
    experienced with those scripts are solely the result of the technology being developed
    in a provincial manner, and not at all the result of intrinsic characteristics
    of the scripts themselves.\r\n\r\nHowever, while that was true in the <em>past</em>,
    our present-day difficulties with those languages <em>are</em>, I have to admit,
    primarily due to provincialism. Painting characters on a screen or a laser printer
    is inherently very flexible, and so if such things as the OpenType spec are designed
    in a way that some of these languages are awkward to handle properly, if the simplest
    way to handle them involves redundant glyphs, and so on... then that is correctable,
    and would not have arisen if people knowledgeable about those scripts were involved
    from the beginning.\r\n\r\nSo I think that you seem to be making a point that
    is only valid if a very important qualification is added."
  created: '2012-08-27 19:17:29'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: Technology never emerges "by accident". What strikes me e.g. is that Unicode
    or indeed Thomas' typesetting system for Arabic, or Hrant's reading theory are
    created in the West, as offshoots of roman type development, and not as a critique
    from people with different writing systems. Maybe even a keyboard as an interface
    is linked to roman type development?
  created: '2012-08-28 07:32:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Peter, while the three examples you give were created in the West, I think
    it is a mistake to characterise them all as 'offshoots of roman type development'.
    In the case of Tom Milo's Arabic system, this is a technology based on close analysis
    of Ottoman Arabic manuscripts made by people who have no background or interest
    in 'roman type development'. One of the reasons it is such an innovative system
    is that it does not rely on any paradigms from Latin script technologies, for
    the simple reason that Tom and his partners have never worked within those paradigms.
  created: '2012-08-28 16:44:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Peter VanLancker:\r\n<cite>Technology never emerges \"by accident\". </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    going to assume this is intended as a criticism of my latest response to Thomas
    Milo in this thread.\r\n\r\nIt certainly is true that Johann Gutenberg had the
    intention of typesetting texts in Latin and German, not texts in Arabic or Chinese.
    Hence, how dare I assume that had the latter been his intention instead, he might
    not have found some way to do that which would be equally easy to achieve?\r\n\r\nSome
    guy named Pi Sheng seems to be pulling at my sleeve at this point...\r\n\r\nMovable
    type was first invented in China, after all, but it didn't succeed quite as well
    there because of the large number of characters the language had.\r\n\r\nYes,
    technologies are invented by people, with the intention of obtaining specific
    results. But that it is simpler to deal with a limited number of glyphs that combine
    in a trivial fashion, rather than the other cases, when not using modern electronic
    technology is not a cultural construct; it is a fact of life.\r\n\r\nIn fairness,
    though, I should note that I remember reading, long ago in <em>Datamation</em>,
    about how someone, by applying a little ingenuity, managed to make a computer
    line printer (not dot-matrix, but formed character, like a daisywheel or a typewriter)
    print in the Korean script."
  created: '2012-08-29 03:10:49'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: 'It seems to me that we do not appreciate importance of one factor, mentioned
    here by Peter. This factor is the lead. There would be no technology nor culture
    arising from the technology, without the material. And Europe is rich in reserves
    of it''s minerals, comparing to other regions. '
  created: '2012-08-29 09:08:24'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "I want to express my deepest respect for the work of Mr Milo or Mr Papazian.
    Sorry if it felt otherwise. I am not a specialist in the matter, I just meant
    to ask some questions. I was notified offline that Thomas is well aware of the
    problem that Unicode encodes characters and not graphemes.\r\n\r\nOn the technology
    aspect, of course there is the aspect of lead, and oil based paint or ink. There
    is also the need for motivation to find something new, etc. Of course the Chinese
    and the Koreans were centuries earlier and maybe Europeans just copied the technique.
    Until quite recently, many countries in Europe claimed the invention of the printing
    press before Gutenberg, and decades before printing, \"handwritten\" books were
    mass produced - so if it had not been for Gutenberg, it would surely have been
    somebody else. If we consider Mesopotamian clay tablets, printing was about as
    early as writing.\r\n\r\nBut I was more thinking about non technological elements:
    the rapid growth of internal and external markets, of a new and sometimes rebellious
    middle class, the necessity of propaganda, the need for a workforce that could
    read. And then later the economic need for adding design to products and the birth
    of art in the modern sense of the word.\r\n\r\nI also fail to see the problem
    with a Western writing system surpressing non Western systems, on the condition
    that it is not combined with personal alienation or discrimination. But maybe
    that is an even more difficult discussion."
  created: '2012-08-29 10:41:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In my case I think my desire/work to foundationally improve the Latin alphabet
    comes from having grown up in a scriptorially varied environment, and one which
    was about half Eastern.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-29 14:48:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'I wonder how long it took from the first commercial Linotype machine for
    American English, to the first Linotype machine for, say... Germany. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: 'That is a very complex matter: the spread of Linotype technology was hindered
      by trade union activity in countries like Belgium, where they were only introduced
      in the fifties, just before the patent expired so they were accompanied by Intertype,
      Delitype (a local clone), and even a Russian model. Another interesting question
      would be how much "hand matrices" were used for ligatures, big kerning pairs,
      etc. Most Linotypists I know would answer: "very few".'
    created: '2012-08-29 17:23:24'
  created: '2012-08-29 15:39:40'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: Maybe the strength of Roman typography comes from the fact that it was based
    on a writing system used for a foreign language - Latin - in the first place.
    Unlike most other writing systems if I understand well that are more or less language
    specific?
  created: '2012-09-03 07:47:23'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Peter\u2014\r\n\r\nLatin was foreign to where? Rome wasn't built in a day,
    and the Roman Empire didn't expand beyond the Italian peninsula overnight, either.
    OTOH, who the hell speaks Phoenician anymore?"
  created: '2012-09-03 12:10:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Old Nick:\r\nOK, I'm puzzled.\r\n\r\nThe Roman Empire expanded beyond Italy,
    and then disappeared, long before Gutenberg came around.\r\n\r\nBut then, it is
    true that Germans wouldn't have found the Latin alphabet to be \"foreign\" by
    then... just as the Israelis don't find their 22-letter alphabet foreign. Perhaps
    that was your point."
  created: '2012-09-03 13:21:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "John\u2014\r\n\r\nLong before Gutenberg, \"Romance\" languages were born.
    German is not one such language but, because of Charlemagne and the Holy Roman
    Empire, Germany eventually fell prey to the Latin-based language consortium\u2014as
    did \"Norman French\" and its heirs and assigns, albeit at a later date\u2026"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: I completely fail to see the link between Romance language and the development
      of Roman type, as the origins of broken or Gothic script are probably in the
      North of France. And even less between the "Holy Roman Empire" and a Latin-based
      language consortium, as shortly after Gutenberg "Germany" became largely Protestant?
    created: '2012-09-03 15:40:06'
  created: '2012-09-03 13:43:00'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "Latin was a foreign language in Europe at least after the Roman classical
    period: it was used as vehicular language for European (religious) intellectuals
    until modern times. The separation between Latin or \"Popular Latin\" and e.g.
    French or Italian is indeed a complex story, but in most parts of Europe, it was
    never anybody's mother tongue. This\u2014I suppose\u2014could have been a factor
    in the evolution of the Roman Cursive into e.g. Carolingian.\r\nIn the 16th century,
    Roman was in some areas typically used for Latin, while Fractura or Italic or
    Civilit\xE9 were used for popular language.\r\nPlease correct me if I am wrong."
  created: '2012-09-03 13:44:55'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Peter\u2014\r\n\r\nLatin IS still used as a \"vehicular language\" for both
    Holy Mother the Church, the legal profession, the scientific community, wag schoolboys
    of many stripes, and other professions and avocations which do not immediately
    come to mind. Also, do not forget English court hands.\r\n\r\nThe more scholarly
    among us will eventually correct any broad-stroke generalizations I may have made."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: "Sure, but the difference between now and then is that there were no or
      very few texts in any other language. First known text in \"Dutch\" e.g. is
      from about 1100. Hence my point that writing was done basically in a foreign
      language. Literacy of course was very low in those days \u2013 we have all seen
      Monty Python \u2013 and maybe this could have had an influence on how a writing
      system and later typography developed. Maybe the fact that Roman was less language
      specific made it more suitable as an export product for other languages \u2013
      Indonesian not to be the least.\r\n"
    created: '2012-09-03 15:29:16'
  created: '2012-09-03 14:06:42'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, Peter\u2014\r\n\r\nYou're right and I'm wrong. Happy now?"
  created: '2012-09-03 16:31:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Any idea when the w in roman or in fraktur appeared for the first time,
    indicating a w sound, and not a Latin uu?</em>\r\n\r\nAs far as I know (which
    isn't very far), there was neither a k nor a w in the Roman alphabet and, therefore
    by extension, nor do they appear in \"native\" words in Italian. Germans do what
    Germans want to do, as my German grandparents (my Mom's mother AND father) will
    attest.\r\n\r\nWhy is an English double-u double-v in French? Why is there an
    ij ligature in Dutch, and not a y? Y, indeed?"
  created: '2012-09-05 13:38:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Your question is not well posed, since when w first appeared, it was used
    to replace uu which had been used to spell a w sound; not to represent some kind
    of long or doubled u sound.\r\n\r\nThis was in 7th century Germany or thereabouts,
    according to Wikipedia. Maybe England, maybe 8th century.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Since w
    replaced uu, that's why it's called double-u, even though it's pointy at the bottom.
    What it looks like is two v's side by side, so, naturally, that's what the French
    would call it, not having the history with uu."
  created: '2012-09-05 13:45:48'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>What it looks like is two v's side by side, so, naturally, that's what
    the French would call it</em>\r\n\r\nYeah? Well, the French think that Jerry Lewis
    is a comic genius, so what the hell do they know?\r\n\r\nWait a minute: I used
    to think the same thing when I was thirteen. I had no idea I had such deep and
    venerable French roots\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-05 15:31:28'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "Yes, I can read the Wikipedia, thank you. But in Latin, u was pronounced
    as w when it had the function of a consonant \u2026 In England it is called double
    u, in Germany Doppel V.\r\nAre there any concrete text samples you know of? The
    \"Dutch\" ij btw was more or less standardized only after the 16th century: I
    would consider it rater a ligature, that was also used in Latin texts."
  created: '2012-09-05 15:48:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Peter\u2014\r\n\r\nI don't really care about the subject at all. Your continuing
    to prattle on about specious nonsense has been and continues to be a waste of
    my time. Find someone else to torment with your poorly-thought-out mind-farts,
    if you please."
  created: '2012-09-05 16:06:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Nick, Peter happens to be among a rare breed of thinking designer,
    which everybody should value. If I were you I would apologize.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-05 16:58:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, Hrant,\r\n\r\nYou aren't me: not even close. And, quite frankly, anyone
    who fails to see an historical connection between Romance languages and Roman
    type doesn't strike me as very thoughty, either\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-05 20:18:14'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I'm beginning to think that the Englischer are the only Yurpians that call
    the 'w' a double-u. Also the only lot I know of that use the 'y' as a consonant.
  created: '2012-09-06 11:01:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@T\xE9 Rowan:\r\n<cite>I'm beginning to think that the Englischer are the
    only Yurpians that call the 'w' a double-u.</cite>\r\n\r\n[[http://mki.wisc.edu/Resources/Archival_Images/Dolmetscher/German_Alphabet_Pg_3.html|Nein.]]"
  created: '2012-09-07 01:50:52'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Nah. That's German phonetics for the English names. IIRC, 'w' is called vi
    in German.
  created: '2012-09-07 15:11:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Oh, dear; you are right about that page.
  created: '2012-09-07 18:49:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Traditional cockney pronunciation is barse-ackwards: Werry for Very, and
    KVeen for Queen.\r\n\r\nCheck out the 1843 <em>Punch</em> article on page 3 of
    this PDF:\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/Punch_Cuts.pdf\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-09-07 19:11:07'
date: '2012-07-29 10:30:53'
title: Why Roman typography is the most developed typography between other writing
  system?

---
