---
author:
  name: jethro
body: "Hi, I've been searching everywhere for the last week to find a definitive answer
  to the question: Is it actually possible to do style linking with your @font-face
  declarations and have it use the proper font faces in IE7-8 (when just using 4 basic
  variations - normal/bold/italic/bold-italic)?\r\n\r\nIn our tests, with a single
  self-hosted font and just 4 variations (normal, bold, italic, bold-italic), all
  browsers understand the @font-face style linking properly and apply the right face
  for bold/italic/bold-italic type. But our good friend IE recognizes the normal face
  properly, then just applies a 'faux' bold & italic to all instances of bold/italic/bold-italic
  type! It looks terrible.\r\n\r\nWe've tried most every variation of popular syntax,
  including the original Paul Irish 'Bulletproof' method, updates to that, the 'Smiley'
  syntax, the recommended syntax from Fonts.com (where we're getting the fonts from),
  and even what's listed here: http://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/using-font-face/.
  They all seem to have the same issues with IE7-8 : bold is 'super-bold' and italic
  is 'extra-italic'. It just looks bad.\r\n\r\nHere's our test page: http://joomla25.lanetest.com/index.php/client-test-article\r\n\r\nSo
  I've found a few discussions about style linking that seem to indicate it is just
  NOT possible in IE7-8 at all. That seems to be what I'm finding.\r\n\r\nHOWEVER,
  there are also a couple discussions that state that IE6-8 can't handle style linking
  when MORE THAN 4 STYLE/WEIGHT VARIANTS are used. We're not doing more than 4! \r\nSee
  here (toward bottom of page): http://help.typekit.com/customer/portal/articles/6855-using-multiple-weights-and-styles\r\nAnd
  here: http://blog.typekit.com/2011/06/27/new-from-typekit-variation-specific-font-family-names-in-ie-6-8/\r\n\r\nBut
  the most confusing thing is that we have definitely been doing this with 2 different
  hosted solutions: FontsLive.com and Typekit. We add the 4 basic variations of a
  font to our 'project', then give them all the same font-name, and lastly just add
  that font-name to our master font-family stack on our body tag. Every instance of
  styling that asks for bold/italic/bold-italic, whether with font-weight/font-style
  rules, or just applying strong/em, just works. EVEN IN IE7-8!!! So it sure seems
  like this is possible! Unfortunately, FontsLive.com was bought out by Fonts.com
  and they use a different method. This is why we're trying their self-hosting option
  - to see if we can get that easy solution back.\r\n\r\n- Anyone have any insight
  I'm missing here???\r\n\r\n- Any other resources or places I should look??\r\n\r\nTHANKS!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "It doesn't matter how you setup the @font-face declaration. If the font family
    itself does not support this internally, you cannot get it to work in IE <=8 in
    the normal CSS way of declaring one family and different styles of that family.
    \r\nThe normal way to work around this would be to setup conditional comments
    to directly target any use of \"i\", \"em\", \"strong\" and so on and apply the
    individual styles (as single-style family) for IE smaller version 9. You can find
    example code in the Web FontFont user-guide. \r\nWebfont services detect the browser
    for each request, so they can apply such work-arounds on the fly if necessary.
    \r\n\r\nThere are however a few fonts that work without such work-around. Ethan
    from Fontspring suspected the OS/2 fsSelection flags to be responsible for this. "
  created: '2012-08-03 21:16:19'
- author:
    name: jethro
  body: "Hi Ralf,\r\nThanks for the reply! I appreciate the help.\r\n\r\nI had wondered
    if the hosted solutions (FontsLive.com or Typekit) were doing some sort of js
    or other magic to 'redefine' all of my styles for IE7-8. But there are just a
    couple things that make me wonder if this is really true:\r\n\r\nA) With FontsLive.com
    at least, we are not using the js method, just one straight line of CSS added
    to the head. They use @font-face to deliver fonts. I know that they may deliver
    a separate version of the actual style sheet for each browser, but upon examining
    the style sheet that appears to be coming into IE, it looks like pretty standard
    @font-face syntax, just linking to the EOT files. It is using style linking with
    one family name, and not much more than that.\r\n\r\nB) We do all CSS locally
    on our site, nothing is added on the hosting site (they do allow you to define
    CSS rules there usually, but we decline). So the hosted solution would have to
    parse all of my CSS rules to override them with the specific font face and reset
    the default bold/italic/bold-italic declarations to 'normal' so that it wouldn't
    then apply a 'faux' bold/italic on top of the now proper font face. And on large
    sites we might have 30-40 different rules declaring type to be bold/italic/bold-italic,
    not just 'strong' & 'em' tags. We see no evidence of this actually happening,
    though I may be missing it.\r\n\r\nThe font we are trying to use is from the same
    foundry (Monotype), and very similar to, one we are currently using on a hosted
    solution (Avant Garde local vs. Century Gothic hosted). So we would hope they
    use similar standards in regards to 'internal' linking. Maybe I can try this with
    Century Gothic to be certain.\r\n\r\nIf it helps, here's a link to the site using
    FontsLive.com's implementation. We only declare 'Century Gothic Web' (the served
    font) in 2 places in our style sheets, the main one being on the body & other
    main elements. And it's not even first in the stack. But bold/italic/bold-italic
    is defined in many different rules.\r\nhttp://www.raphahouse.org/what-we-do\r\n\r\nThanks
    again for any insight here. Just trying to get to the bottom of it.\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-03 23:17:17'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "<blockquote>The font we are trying to use is from the same foundry (Monotype),
    and very similar to, one we are currently using on a hosted solution (Avant Garde
    local vs. Century Gothic hosted). So we would hope they use similar standards
    in regards to 'internal' linking.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat does not appear to
    be the case. You're declaring the Book weight of Avant Garde as the \"regular\"
    CSS weight, and the Medium weight as the \"bold\", and those weights are not linked
    together internally. Century Gothic Web has four weights with (I'm assuming) standard
    style linking, and is apparently intended to be \"compatible\" style-wise to the
    Century Gothic fonts that ship with various Microsoft products. That allows it
    to be listed in the font stack after versions that might already be installed
    locally.\r\n\r\nYou could try declaring Avant Garde's Demibold weight as the <code>font-weight:
    bold;</code> for Avant Garde Book. Likewise, Avant Garde Bold might function as
    a CSS bold with the Medium weight as regular, if they're linked as such internally."
  created: '2012-08-04 06:37:06'
- author:
    name: jethro
  body: "Thanks for the help here! I hadn't thought that using Medium for the 'bold'
    weight might not work properly. I guess that does make sense if what you're saying
    about 'internal linking' is true.\r\n\r\nUNFORTUNATELY, I tried swapping out the
    medium face for demi and even bold. Neither of them made any difference in IE7.
    (it's currently set for demi now). And even with that, why would the italic face
    not be displaying properly?!?\r\n\r\nI even tried going so far as to load Century
    Gothic - the same font we currently have working through FontsLive.com (this is
    how I've left it for now). Still same issue. So I downloaded the CSS file that
    is served just to IE from FontsLive.com and mirrored it for this test so that
    the only difference was the location & names of the font files (even took off
    the .eot extension that they don't list). Took out all the rules that target other
    browsers so only the IE stuff was in there. SAME ISSUES!\r\n\r\nIt seems like
    no matter what I try, IE grabs the first face that it sees in the @font-face stack
    and uses that. Then it applies a 'faux' italic and bold for every instance that
    is required. If I put the bold face first in the CSS file, it makes all of the
    type bold, with 'faux' italic and bold applied to those specific instances.\r\n\r\nArgh!
    From my extensive testing it would certainly lead me to believe that it is 100%
    NOT possible to do style linking with IE7-8, but yet FontsLive.com and TypeKit
    somehow magically get it to work!\r\n\r\n- Any other thoughts or things I might
    have missed???\r\n\r\nTHANKS!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 03:43:17'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Like I said before: \u201Creal style-linking\u201C (the way the CSS specs
    declare it) in IE 6-8 is only possible for certain fonts that have certain flags
    set correctly. If the font is not set this way, you cannot do anything about it
    directly. \r\n\r\nYou either need to target these IE version with conditional
    comments or you need to apply work-arounds dynamically. Typekit describes their
    work-around here: (They basically turn every style into a single family for IE
    6 to 8)\r\nhttp://help.typekit.com/customer/portal/articles/6855-using-multiple-weights-and-styles\r\nhttp://blog.typekit.com/2011/06/29/using-typekit-fonts-in-your-own-css/"
  created: '2012-08-08 06:58:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: What are those flags, Ralf?
  created: '2012-08-08 10:42:30'
- author:
    name: jethro
  body: "Thanks Ralf! \r\n\r\nI have a message in to someone at Fonts.com trying to
    ask the FontsLive.com developers how they pull it off. But he was also starting
    to wonder if the internal metadata style linking was not correct with the EOT
    files.  If so, this might help me understand why NOTHING I do on my end (CSS tricks,
    etc.) is making any difference.\r\n\r\nThe only thing that is puzzling about this
    situation is the fact that the font that we have working with FontsLive.com is
    a Monotype font, so they would have had to get it from the same source as Fonts.com
    (a Monotype division). But I'm wondering if they made some modifications while
    creating the EOT files that might have fixed the issues before they started. \r\n\r\n-
    Is this what you are thinking in regards to the 'flags' not being set right??\r\n\r\n-
    If this is actually the case, I would also be curious to know if there are any
    tools/methods that would allow me to 'fix' the metadata/flags for these EOT files
    so they would work properly??? FontsLive.com somehow did it, as apparently Typekit
    does as well.\r\n\r\nAnd according to both of those links you posted for Typekit,
    they both indicate that the extra 'variation-specific family names' is for when
    you have more than the default 2 weights in your family. They try to strip families
    down to the basic 2 weights (normal/bold) and 2 styles (normal/italic) so they
    work across browsers by default. We are not trying to use more than the 4 basic
    style/weight variations. \r\n\r\n<blockquote>The biggest limitation is that in
    IE6, IE7, and IE8, you can only link up to four fonts with two weights into a
    single font-family name before the entire family stops working. <br />In order
    to avoid breaking things completely in these older browsers, Typekit filters the
    set of fonts that you select in each family down to a basic four weights and styles
    when serving fonts to these browsers.</blockquote>"
  created: '2012-08-09 00:25:16'
- author:
    name: Rolf
  body: "I have to investigate/test this myself with fonts and old browsers to check,
    but why would you even want to use web fonts with IE6,7 or 8? They look crap most
    of the time anyway on XP (or, I could say they don't look so good in any IE).\r\n\r\nBut
    I thought that style linking worked whenever it was properly configured for regular/italic
    and bold/bold italic, just like for the Office environments back in the day. Here's
    the fsSelection flags Ralf is talking about I think: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/os2.htm
    (search for fsSelection) which is in relation with font naming (http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/name.htm,
    read under Name IDs).\r\n\r\nBut in any case I would just create the site for
    modern browsers and then the alternative for old browsers and really check if
    you want to use web fonts in those cases. No?"
  created: '2012-08-10 18:51:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Want an explanation? Wanna get it to work?\r\nThis explains what to do and
    the underlying theory:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eotfast.com/documentation.php\r\n\r\nSkip
    to the section titled <strong>What To Do When You Run Into A Problem</strong>\r\nand
    then skip to number 3 within that where it says:\r\n<em>If you are declaring the
    font as part of a larger Font-Family, the same style and weight as you are declaring
    for font-weight and font-style in the CSS needs to be defined inside the font,
    since IE 6, 7, and 8 will read that font data \u2013 and possibly override the
    CSS weight/style settings.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you don't understand fonts well enough
    to know what all of this means and what internal settings are involved, I suggest
    you just fuggedaboudit. \r\nBut if you do - or you take it upon yourself to learn
    - I assure you that font weight and font-style will work predictably and reliably
    once you reconcile the internal data of the fonts with the font-weight and font-style
    properties declared for them in the @font-face declarations.\r\n\r\nOk?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-10 23:56:30'
- author:
    name: jethro
  body: "Ahhhh, feels like I'm finally getting somewhere! Thanks Rolf & Richard for
    the great tips and links!\r\n\r\nI'll look through the page on EOTFAST a bit more
    when I get a chance, but in glancing through it I can totally understand what
    may need to happen. It's just a matter of whether the tools to actually make what
    is probably a very simple change are easily accessible and simple enough to use.\r\n\r\nIf
    we were going to try to correct any issues, we would most likely need to adjust
    the TrueType versions of the fonts then 're-convert' to EOTs, correct? Or are
    there tools to allow us to quickly adjust the settings in the EOT file itself?
    We would just have to hope the files we got from Fonts.com would allow for this.\r\n\r\nIt
    is still puzzling that Fonts.com (Monotype) would get something like this wrong
    on two very popular fonts, while FontsLive.com was able to convert the files properly
    (apparently). I can see how Avant Garde might have an issue with many different
    weights, but Century Gothic is really only offered in regular/italic/bold/bold-italic.
    It's strange that the internal style linking would be off on that, but maybe their
    conversion tool messes something up?!?"
  created: '2012-08-11 02:23:03'
- author:
    name: Rolf
  body: "I would expect any serious web font service provider should be able the get
    you the correct fonts. They should fix them and serve \"updated\" versions after
    the fix. So I suggest you file a bug report with them :)\r\nDon't they offer some
    sort of trial period, sample testing while your developing so that you can test
    with actual fonts?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if there are tools btw that let you easily
    edit and fix EOTs."
  created: '2012-08-11 12:16:25'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>It is still puzzling that Fonts.com (Monotype) would get something
    like this wrong on two very popular fonts\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is nothing
    \xBBwrong\xAB with the fonts. The problem is IE with its @font-face implementation.
    I am not aware that any webfont service provider would solve this problem within
    the fonts. They work around it dynamically or let you do it yourself by just serving
    single-style families. \r\nThe internal style-linking wouldn't help much for larger
    families where the customer might pick random styles from a family and wants to
    link them together via CSS. \r\n\r\nIf you got at 4-style family, just add a conditional
    comment for IE up to version 8. Within that comment define your 3 additional styles
    (italic/bold/bold italic) as single families and assign these fonts to every instance
    of \u201Cb\u201D, \u201Cstrong\u201D, \u201Ci\u201D, \u201Cem\u201D and the combinations
    of those. That works all the time for every font and every version of IE. "
  created: '2012-08-11 15:09:46'
- author:
    name: jethro
  body: "Ohhh, I was so hopeful to have found the answer with internal style linking!
    UNFORTUNATELY, unless I converted something improperly, after 'fixing' the internal
    font name issues there is absolutely NO difference in behavior! Ugh...\r\n\r\nHere's
    the process I used:\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>I first used the free 'Microsoft Font Properties'
    tool to inspect the TTF versions of the fonts. Sure enough, they all said 'Regular'
    for the SubFamily name, and the Font Family name was actually blank on most.</li><li>I
    then used a tool called 'FontForge' to open the TTF fonts and edit the Family
    names to be all the same (AvantGardeGothic). Then I changed the TTF SubFamily
    names to what they should be according to the weight/style (Regular, Italic, Bold,
    Bold Italic).</li>\r\n<li>I generated new fonts after making these simple changes.</li>\r\n<li>When
    viewing the properties on these new TTF files, they did now all have the same
    Font Family name and proper SubFamily names.</li>\r\n<li>I then followed some
    instructions on using the Microsoft WEFT tool to convert the TTFs to EOTs. (after
    this didn't appear to work, I also tried an online version of a tool called 'ttf2eot').</li>\r\n<li>Lastly
    I uploaded the new EOT files, cleared history & hard-refreshed IE7, and NOTHING
    different! I tried stripping down the CSS @font-face declarations to be just IE-specific
    (only specifying the EOTs), and still nothing.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\n- Could I
    have done something wrong still?? \r\n- Is there any way to examine the properties
    of the EOTs to make sure they didn't get messed up in conversion??\r\n\r\nAnd
    Ralf, I appreciate the insight. I think if I was going to skip style linking for
    IE, I would just skip it for everything and manually add the specific font-family
    info to every instance necessary (skipping adding IE-only CSS). The point of this
    post was to see if style linking IS EVEN possible at all in IE7-8. If you go setup
    a simple font stack at Typekit, you'll see that you don't have to do what you're
    talking about with adding specific font-families to every CSS rule. You just add
    the one font-family name, and do everything else as-if it was a local font.\r\n\r\nStill
    wondering what magic FontsLive.com and Typekit use... "
  created: '2012-08-14 03:28:04'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "You shouldn\u2019t have done all this work. First of all, the internal names
    are usually not used at all. Webfonts might even work if they don't have a name
    table at all. They are just file references within the browser. From what I read,
    you also didn't change the fsSelection flags. \r\n\r\nAlso, I would not advise
    to mess with existing TrueType fonts in font editors. If they have manual hinting
    you will probably strip that in the process. \r\n\r\nSo again concerning to your
    original question:\r\nYes, style-linking IS possible in IE up to version 8 for
    a regular 4-style families, if these families are set up in a certain way internally.
    \r\nUsually we can't expect that so you either have faux italic/bold in IE until
    version 8 or you work around that with one of the methods mentioned above. But
    basically they all do the same thing. Even if they don't use conditional comments,
    they use automatically altered font stacks to achieve exactly the same thing.
    There is no other \xBBmagic\xAB is use. Just pick one of the methods and implement
    it. "
  created: '2012-08-14 09:41:03'
- author:
    name: jethro
  body: "SUCCESS!!!! \r\n\r\nThank you Ralf for the little hint about the fsSelection
    flags! I went back in to FontForge and paid a lot more attention to all the tabs
    in the 'Element/Font Info' section. There are quite a few things, and they're
    not named by standards (like 'fsSelection'). But I think I found everything, re-generated
    the TTF fonts, and re-converted to EOT using WEFT. SO nice to finally see it change
    when I refreshed!!!\r\n\r\nHere's my sample page using Avant Garde, with Avant
    Garde Medium used for bold/bold-italic:\r\nhttp://joomla25.lanetest.com/index.php/client-test-article\r\n\r\nSo
    to answer the original question: YES, it is possible to use style linking in older
    versions of IE, as long as the font metadata is properly setup when it is converted.
    And it is possible to modify this information if it is not correct by default.\r\n\r\nI'm
    a bit frustrated with Fonts.com that I had to do all this, but I suppose that's
    why they don't explicitly support style linking. So FontsLive.com must have done
    something to the fonts before or during their conversion of them. I really figured
    this out when I tried converting my Windows desktop version of Century Gothic
    to EOT and it worked right off. Just can't understand why the web-hosting version
    of that font (both from Monotype) would be so different in the metadata?!?\r\n\r\nThanks
    everyone for the great help!"
  created: '2012-08-14 19:56:58'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: <a href="http://www.gust.org.pl/projects/e-foundry/tex-gyre/adventor/index_html"><strong>TeX
    Gyre Adventor</strong></a>, which is very close to Avant Garde, would allow it
    though.
  created: '2012-08-14 21:16:12'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I don\u2019t think you are allowed to do this. Check the EULA!"
  created: '2012-08-14 22:33:33'
- author:
    name: jethro
  body: I'll check it out and speak with Fonts.com. But we've paid for a license to
    use Avant Garde on our website, and this license included the ability to self-host
    a set of fonts that we are able to download from them. We downloaded all of the
    TTF, WOFF, SVG and EOT files as a package from their site. The only thing I did
    in essence was correct their poorly constructed metadata in the font files that
    I really believe should not even have to be done. If anything, we should get a
    discount for all the hours we had to put into figuring this out and correcting
    it!
  created: '2012-08-15 05:06:30'
- author:
    name: slickwilly2000
  body: "I am very sorry for answering to an old thread, but I am very frustrated
    about using an EOT-File for Internet Explorer 8.0 (IE 8). I want  to use the very
    common font \"Open Sans\" from Google-Fonts.\r\n\r\nThe problem in using exactly
    ONE font-family and different font-weights/font-styles was already mentioned above.
    I did not get it working within 2 days.\r\n\r\nI tried all the tips above regarding
    fsSelection and font-naming. Although I do well know the internal structure of
    a TTF-file, I wasn't succesful at all. I am very familar with the structure itself
    and also patched a ttf-file with a hex-editor in the past successfully (this was
    for a different purpose).\r\n\r\n@jehtro: Can you explain what you did to achieve
    using olny one font-familiy with different font-weights/font-styles in IE 8?\r\n\r\nThanks
    in advance!"
  created: '2013-06-06 18:02:39'
date: '2012-08-03 20:36:40'
title: "@font-face Style Linking \u2013 Does it Really Work in IE7-8??"

---
