---
author:
  name: Queneau
  picture: 112949
body: "Dear Typophile,\r\n\r\nWhen checking the forums in recent times, I can't help
  feeling a little sad that Typophile is not anymore what it was when I first found
  it, several years ago. I came in with an interest in typography, but a lack of knowledge.
  Typophile has been a gateway to me to find my way and expand my knowledge, and to
  highten my awareness of typography in every sense of the way. I came to typophile
  in the high days of the Pirate Bay, and all fonts where all but a torrent away.
  Through Typophile I have learned to see the value of type and type design, and I
  decided to build a legal collection of typefaces from scratch. This has been a joy
  most of the time, with some lucky bargains, and some mistakes. Typophile has been
  helpful here, I hope others on a simular position as my own still find typophile
  as useful as I found it then.\r\n\r\nI guess things don't last forever, and Typophile
  seems to have lost the dynamic it had some time ago. Que sera sera. The internet
  and \"social\" media moves fast, and perhaps there are better ways to discuss type
  than typophile nowadays... I don't know, as I have not been looking so much. Typophile
  is and was Typophile, I don't need any other type forum, it has served it's purpose
  for me, so a thank you to all contributors past and present, who have made me a
  little type wiser. I will not be gone, and I won't be deleting my posts (what's
  done is done) but I just want to say thanks when there are still some of you around
  that helped me on my way.\r\n\r\nTHANKS!"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: '+1'
  created: '2012-08-07 09:57:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you for the nice post.\r\nIndeed, the only constant is change.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-07 15:01:29'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "<blockquote>I can't help feeling a little sad that Typophile is not anymore
    what it was when I first found it</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo the typophiles that have
    been around here for longer: What was it like? What made it better than today,
    if you agree with this assumption?\r\n\r\nNo intention to stir nostalgia, just
    curious."
  created: '2012-08-07 15:15:50'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: For one, there were more people around.
  created: '2012-08-07 15:42:48'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "As I said, there was a different dynamic, at least that is how I experienced
    it. It was more lively (more contributors, more discussion) than it is now, with
    many contributors that had been very active in the past leaving. I don't know
    why exactly this has happened, perhaps these communities have a certain lifespan,
    and as typophile did not change a lot (technically) over the years I guess the
    needs of the users were not met anymore, so they changed ship or left (just my
    speculation). I guess it also has to do with the fact that at the beginning there
    was loads of archives for me to plough through, which I can't be bothered with
    anymore (also because of the awful search engine, but anyway...). \r\n\r\nI am
    not a type creator myself, I am a designer using type, and do some handlettering,
    so perhaps Typophile still is very fruitful for others, concerning technical matters,
    I can't say. \r\n\r\nI guess it just seemed different then, somehow... :/"
  created: '2012-08-07 15:44:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Yea, there were a lot more people. There's a lot less people now and of those
    that are still here, there's a contingency of grumpy folks that insist on slowly
    deleting every single post they can find in the past out of some petty spitefulness.
    So, it's not just that the community has shrunk a bit, but also that there seems
    to be inexplicable grudges remaining. \r\n\r\nIt was a good site, though. Learned
    lots. "
  created: '2012-08-07 15:49:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If anyone should have a grudge, it would be Hrant and I, but we are quite
    polite to one another these days.\r\nPerhaps that erstwhile bitterness is what
    you miss Jeffrey?\r\n\r\nOr are you just getting bored because you\u2019re familiar
    with the old crew\u2019s schtick, and the newbies don\u2019t have the chops we
    do?\r\nCome to think of it, today\u2019s newbies are a bit lacking, compared to
    the likes of Ms Giggles.\r\n\r\nJames Montalbano always keeps it real. As for
    deleting his old posts, what\u2019s the diff? \u2014you can\u2019t \uFB01nd them
    on Google anyway, which is a real crime.\r\n\r\nIf Typophile could get its search
    happening again and reinstate Featured Fonts, it would have a lot more life."
  created: '2012-08-07 16:12:27'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I have never bothered that much with all the 'bitterness', it was fun sometimes,
    but not what attracted me. What was good was the plurality of voices, some bitter,
    some blunt, some nice and so on. As there are a lot less voices around, the whole
    thing just becomes less colorful, less interesting.\r\n\r\nThat some had a stronger
    voice and stronger opinions than others was not much of a problem then, as there
    were many. Now, the friendlyness between you and Hrant might have something to
    do with the fact that the discussions have become much less interesting/conflicting
    than they used to be, Nick?\r\n\r\nI think Typophile used to be great not because
    of the rants between its users, but rather despite of it, actually."
  created: '2012-08-07 16:23:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think many people used Typophile as a \"social quick-fix\" (designers -especially
    type designers- often end up being lonely) but often got drawn into deeper discussions
    now and again. Now that Twitter and such make superficial socializing so easy
    (the 140-character limit is a powerfully sad reflection on contemporary social
    interaction) places like Typophile weaken.\r\n\r\nSomething like Typophile is
    a bit like marriage: things change, and people change - but to me at least loyalty
    is very important. I don't always enjoy being here, but that's not the point for
    me. Some people aren't meant for marriage, but they shouldn't hate people who
    are; and they should expect \"spouses\" to defend each other... in public.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-07 16:54:11'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "<blockquote>grumpy folks [who] insist on slowly deleting every single post
    they can find in the past</blockquote>\r\n\r\nPics or it didn\u2019t happen."
  created: '2012-08-07 18:19:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean like this?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/phshop_4915.jpg]\r\n:-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-07 18:38:01'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Snide and unhelpful as ever, Hrant. You\u2019re one reason people left. Quite
    a justifiable reason, in fact."
  created: '2012-08-08 14:22:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joe, all I was saying is that an image is no proof. Snide? Coming from you...
    And why would you pretend that some people (thankfully only a couple) have not
    been deleting their old posts?\r\n\r\nBTW how do you explain that the Hrant-free
    forum hasn't had a single post by anybody in seven days? Things are clearly not
    so simple -  don't use me as a scapegoat.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 14:36:07'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: I guess Typophile was and still should be primarily about type, not about
    personal attacks. As long as topics keep siding off into these pointless attacks,
    things will not get any better round here. why not stick to a topic for once,
    or start another thread... :(
  created: '2012-08-08 15:02:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Truthfully, I always hated the senseless sniping and personal attacks.  If
    you want that, watch so-called \"Reality\" TV. I don't miss that and never will.
    \ However, I don't blame any of the participants in these exchanges for the current
    vegetative state of Typophile. People all have failings so that sort of thing
    was akin to family squabbles.  \r\nI do very much miss the sense of community
    we once had here, and the fun. Typophile was the leading reason I began to be
    a typeface designer. I got to meet people from all over the World through this
    site.  \r\nI do hope that the entire history of Typophile posts can be collected
    into a CD and offered at a reasonable some to all past participants.  That way,
    we can do our own searches and find whatever interests us most and take the burden
    off of the Punchcut guys.  They have a business to run and make no money from
    this venture. I would very much like to thank them for the ride from 2004 until
    today.  They may even write a book :-)"
  created: '2012-08-08 15:17:38'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: Chris, your posts have often been about the most friendly, humble, measured
    and informative around here. Thanks for still being here, even when many others
    have left.
  created: '2012-08-08 16:06:41'
- author:
    name: etahchen
  body: "thank you typophile.\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 16:42:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant, add us old geezer white males to your list ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 17:11:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thinking some more about the \"social fix\" angle I mentioned, I realize
    it's probably connected to the near-total absence of women here these days (which
    has been noted by others recently). Although I've seen confrontation drive women
    away before, as Nick said it's been much worse in the past so I don't think that's
    it. So at the risk of being condemned as sexist I would suggest that, since women
    are more socially adept and aware they can get their fix better than men in places
    more conducive to socializing. Which to me is a much bigger loss than a handful
    of middle-aged white males (coincidentally my own demographic).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 17:13:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jeffrey,\r\n\r\nThanks for the kind remarks.  There are many more people
    who have contributed more to Typophile than me."
  created: '2012-08-08 17:16:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Yes, many thanks to those that have stuck around and who have always offered
    help, suggestions and opinions!
  created: '2012-08-08 17:36:15'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I've seen confrontation drive women away before\r\n\r\nYears ago I was
    active in a discussion group about space travel and we had several NASA employees
    (mostly women) who regularly participated. One by one the NASA folks left the
    group due to rude, juvenile, confrontational comments. "
  created: '2012-08-08 17:37:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paradoxically, I've heard that the Chinese character for \"conflict\" is
    two \"woman\" characters! :-)  But that might be a fun fabrication.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 17:56:41'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "I've been a member since 2003, checking up on new posts most days but very
    seldom posting. Maybe people like me should have participated/should be participating
    more. I'd never dream of contributing to this sort of thread normally. Most of
    the time I'm interested in details/ historical design etc.\r\n\r\nLike the others,
    I too would like to thank the Typophile community. This thread feels a bit like
    a wake,  but I hope that Typophile will continue to thrive. It's true that the
    traffic has palpably gone down, and perhaps more worryingly the most knowledgeable
    ones are not as evident. The professional count has also gone down too I reckon,
    tho make of that what you will. Most of all, it's not quite so much of a 'learning
    place' as it used to, although there's still lots of enthusiasm and discovery.\r\n\r\nI've
    learned a huge amount from the site and have grown and watched others grow. Typophile
    is part of the 'furniture of my mind'. I must say of all the typophile regulars
    I feel I have learnt most from John Hudson. Wow. You could make a book out of
    the things that that guy has posted here. Thanks to him and to all.\r\n\r\nGeraint\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 18:53:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Paradoxically, I've heard that the Chinese character for \"conflict\" is
    two \"woman\" \"\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\nI don't know about you, but I can't recall even
    one exchange between 2 women on this board that even bordered on being impolite.
    Every single urination exchange I can remember has been between 2 males. ;-)"
  created: '2012-08-08 19:51:44'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I\u2019m still a bit helpless about the sadness this thread constitutes.
    \r\n\r\nWHY?\r\n\r\nThere have never been so much people successfully developing
    quality type than today. Typography has been one of the hot trends of the last
    decade. And yet, this place seems to just decline in the eye of it\u2019s matter\u2019s
    rise. I still don\u2019t understand. I have no idea for getting out of this.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    THANK YOU from me as well, to all who contributed more thought than text."
  created: '2012-08-08 20:17:55'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>Snide and unhelpful as ever, Hrant. You\u2019re one reason people left.
    Quite a justifiable reason, in fact.</em>\r\n\r\nI can't speak to how he was before
    I arrived in 2010, but since then I've found Hrant to be nothing if not helpful.
    \ He's one of the only skillful designers who actually frequents the critique
    section and tries to help out.  He can be very blunt and to some, insensitive;
    but I prefer that type anyway.  Much better than someone who smiles in your face,
    all the while plotting on how to stab you in the back.  There's nothing wrong
    with people having strong opinions and defending them strongly.  Since when did
    everybody start thinking they need to have their asses kissed before they could
    talk to someone?  I run into this at work all the time.  You can't be honest with
    people anymore, or else you're an asshole.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAlso, I wonder how
    close the drop off here was to the drop off of the economy in '08?  I'd bet a
    lot of people who had some excess money around before that decided to take up
    type design.  Then when the economy crashed and they lost their day jobs--just
    no more time leftover for type design anymore, which certainly doesn't pay the
    bills.  Let's face it, its more of a hobby.  Who has time for hobbies when they're
    trying to figure out how to feed their families?\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nOh, and also,
    these little brats running around deleting their old comments are yet one more
    reason why I feel there should be a time limit on how long you can edit a post."
  created: '2012-08-08 20:42:03'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The number of those around here that doesn\u2019t make a living from type
    design has been growing, not declining. I too owe a lot to Typophile, so thank
    you!\r\n\r\nOn a side note: I am a bit uncomfortable with the whole digital thing.
    I\u2019ve regretted my tone more then once, and often feel like I come across
    worse than I really am. Obviously, I can be a P-I-A when I go all Dracula on the
    TrueType hinters or Wim-Bam-Boom at outdated and defensive licensing :)"
  created: '2012-08-08 21:03:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the undesirable degree of sensitivity to criticism comes from the
    \"artiste\" strain that all creative people inherently have. It's just that for
    too many of us self-expression seems to become more of an objective than an enabler,
    so any criticism that aims to improve the functionality of the result is instead
    taken as a personal attack on the creative self. To me the world doesn't need
    our self-expression nearly as much as it needs our servitude, and the opinions
    of fellow designers -especially the negative ones- can only help. Questions...
    mistakes... doubt... that's where the gold is in terms of cultural progress.\r\n\r\nConcerning
    the economy angle, to me it has long seemed an interesting paradox. The most prominent
    example I've witnessed that makes me doubt the \"bad economy = less type design\"
    formula is that before the collapse of the Argentinian economy (and the strong
    regional ripple effect) at the turn of the millennium South America was nowhere
    on the map in terms of type design, but <em>right in the thick of it</em> they
    started producing amazing work, winning TDC awards, the works. Equally telling
    is that there's much more quality <em>free</em> type than there has ever been;
    if people were so busy paying bills that wouldn't be happening.\r\n\r\nBut maybe
    what <em>is</em> happening is that people who do [try to] make a living by relying
    heavily on type design (there are more of them than you might think) are sick
    of providing free help to people who release good free fonts, reducing their own
    income potential.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 21:07:28'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "@Hrant\r\n\r\nI guess Free Help is only considered a bad thing when the 'giving'
    party seems to get nothing from the occasion, either gratitude or insight or whatnot.
    I am not always in the mood of giving either, but sometimes enjoy having a look
    at someones work (when I feel there is spirit in it) and try to help to improve
    it. I learn from this as well, on a human level. But when it feels like there
    is no point in giving critique, I guess I would not want to bother either. \r\n\r\nIt
    was and is not always only about a novice taught by an expert, as experts learn
    from other experts, as do novices from other novices.\r\n\r\n@Andreas\r\n\r\nApologies,
    as I did not want to turn this into a tombstone thread to Typophile. I just felt
    like expressing gratitude for what it has done to me, but I guess a certain degree
    of melancholie is just a part of looking back... I almost feel like singing out
    : \"don't you forget about me!\" :) )"
  created: '2012-08-08 22:24:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, the best teacher is an eternal student.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-08 22:37:53'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>I think the undesirable degree of sensitivity to criticism comes from
    the \"artiste\" strain that all creative people inherently have. </em>\r\n\r\nThe
    whatever-we-do-is-beautiful-because-we-are-all-are-precious-individual-snowflakes
    attitude has no truck with the true artist."
  created: '2012-08-08 22:46:31'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>true artist</em>\r\n<em>\"artiste\" strain that all creative people inherently
    have</em>\r\n\r\nTo be a primadonna one needs great skill and <em>demonstrated</em>
    experience. You cannot be one without substantial career or success. I am happy
    to forgive a bit of pettiness or emotion to those whose work I respect and admire.
    After all, it was reported that Mozart was petulant and juvenile\u2026 On the
    other hand, people who are yet to make a contribution, or to show any talent should
    me more guarded in their pronouncements, lest they appear to be hollow poseurs.\r\n\r\n<em>precious-individual-snowflakes</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    is a judgement of others that matters, Ryan and Hrant. Someone other than you
    has to appreciate your work. Otherwise the joke is on you, I am afraid.\r\n\r\n@dezcom
    & others, you know who you are: Thank you for your help, advice and gentle humour.\r\n\r\nGood
    bye.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-09 01:11:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "While I am happy to forgive a bit of pettiness or emotion from anybody, even
    people whose work I can't stand. But I'm not happy to look the other way when
    I see vandalism of something I value. I don't grasp why this is so strange.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I don't think being a primadonna is OK no matter what.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It is
    a judgement of others that matters</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAgreed. What makes you
    believe that I get no appreciation of my work? Is it that you personally don't
    think much of it? That's not very important to me, or anybody else besides you.
    It's the same for all of us. And really, if nobody objects you're probably merely
    a passenger in this life. Dieu vomit les ti\xE8des.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-09 01:36:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"BTW, I don't think being a primadonna is OK no matter what.\"\r\n\"Indeed,
    the best teacher is an eternal student.\"\r\n\r\n[Two sides of the nutshell right
    there;]"
  created: '2012-08-09 14:17:04'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@hrant &ndash; As I heard/read it, the Chinese character for ''trouble''
    is ''two women in a house''. But since I know as much Chinese as I do Armenian
    (sod all), I can not verify this off hand.'
  created: '2012-08-09 18:07:36'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I need you people to stop being concern trolls. Typophile\u2019s decline
    is due to a host of factors, as has been described here and elsewhere. The fact
    that Joe Pemberton, who runs this site behind the scenes, bans the word \u201Cphuck\u201D
    (because he\u2019s a Mormon) but <em>never banned Hrant</em> is a prime example
    of the lasting dysfunction of Typophile.\r\n\r\nHrant has always been a problem,
    one that should have been addressed long ago. Hrant can go work on Armenian fonts
    and call himself a \u201Crogue\u201D academic on his own time. We don\u2019t need
    him here and never did need him. It is an enduring myth that members known to
    be harmful have as much of a \u201Cright\u201D to partake in a  private forum
    as everyone else. Responsible operators of forums ban troublemakers. Hrant causes
    trouble. He is <em>not</em> merely a lovable and misunderstood scamp with as much
    of a \u201Cright\u201D to be here as anyone else.\r\n\r\nBan Hrant, not \u201Cfuck.\u201D"
  created: '2012-08-09 21:09:06'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: Careful with the word "we" if this is clearly your very own personal opinion.
    I don't have a problem as such with Hrant or any other members, even if I don't
    always like what they have to say. And your rant against Joe Pemberton is completely
    unnessesary. If you don't like this place, leave, or do something to change it.
    Don't blame the others, it's poor form, and gets you nowhere.
  created: '2012-08-09 21:13:38'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Can we get over this Hrantophobia please? it is sickening! Type design is
    full of sick sociopaths!
  created: '2012-08-09 21:14:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joe, your ego is so big, you think egos make the world go 'round. Many creative
    types have this problem, and they need to find other egos to scapegoat, refusing
    to face the facts on the ground, refusing to face their own low tolerance. Again:
    Do you not think it's relevant that the Hrant-free forum has not had a single
    post by anybody for 8 days now? Maybe they're doing something else wrong. Please,
    start yet another type discussion forum which I'll promise not to join even if
    you let me, and the best of luck with it, honestly. This place, you can't control.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-09 22:40:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: last one out, grab the lights. :/
  created: '2012-08-09 23:49:04'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>last one out, grab the lights.</blockquote>\r\nI\u2019ll grab
    the Extra Bolds ;-)"
  created: '2012-08-10 00:07:19'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: And I'll snag the Books.
  created: '2012-08-10 00:27:04'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "...you're welcome.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-08-10 01:06:06'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: For those who really don't like Hrant, keep in mind there is no such thing
    as bad publicity.
  created: '2012-08-10 02:03:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: So, anybody read any good books lately?
  created: '2012-08-10 03:10:55'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "I'm still hanging around, although sometimes I feel like the last one. \r\n\r\nBut
    I think Joe and Hrant's bitching contest could have it's own thread that we could
    all easily ignore. "
  created: '2012-08-10 04:08:46'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Yeah, Chris, in the process of one which Typophilers might find interesting.\r\n\r\nFor
    the past thirty years there's been a kind of \"stealth\" translation going on
    of about 12,000 pages of records from the Dutch East India Company dating from
    the days when it ran New Amsterdam - also known as the  island of Manhattan.\r\nI'm
    reading a book based on that research called The Island At The Center Of The World.
    A great story - at least for a native New Yorker like me who graduated from a
    high school named after New Amsterdam's most famous boss, Petrus Stuyvesant, without
    ever really knowing all that much about him or the very beginnings of Manhattan;
    the beginnings of America, really. So little history was available until recently.\r\nUnlike
    other settlements, it turns out New Yawk was a melting pot from day one.\r\n(Of
    course, history is written by the victors, and as far as the Brits were concerned,
    Manhattan didn't rate any note until it became New York and not New Amsterdam.
    But in fact, the city's DNA was set during Dutch rule and was vastly different
    from the English settlements of the period in Virginia and Massachusetts. Blacks
    (both slave and free), Jews, Germans, Dutch, English, Spanish - you name the background
    - they all lived side by side in that miniscule community. Something like eighteen
    languages were spoken among just a few hundred initial inhabitants. And if you
    included the languages of the Native American populations nearby, you would probably
    have to double that number.) \r\nMy understanding, according to the book, is that
    the Dutch language of the 1600s is vastly different from modern Dutch, hence the
    struggle to translate. It's been the life's work of one guy: a Dr. George Gehring.
    I'm going to try and get my hands on some pics to see what the script looks like.
    \ Supposedly it's a real hodgepodge of glyphs, but if any Typophilers are  familiar
    with Dutch as it was then written in, say, 1625, might be able to fill us in.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as the post which started this thread is concerned, the reports of Typophile's
    death are greatly exaggerated. I hope it continues on.  There is an ebb and flow
    to everything.  What is old becomes new again. \r\n"
  created: '2012-08-10 04:10:26'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "@Richard Fink - re: Dutch New York \r\nThat book sounds very interesting.
    As a fellow New Yorker and Pegleg, I tried to look you up in a very incomplete
    Alumni Directory dated 1992 (classes from 1904-1991), but you weren't there.  I'm
    betting that my year (1952) was much earlier than yours!  There was a Garry Fink
    in my class, which has nothing to do with anything.\r\n\r\nAnd as for this thread,
    it's really obvious: \r\n  1) Things change\r\n  2) Nostalgia ain't what it used
    to be.\r\n\r\n- Herb V B  (the V is for Van - but NY since the late 19th century,
    not the 16th)"
  created: '2012-08-10 05:02:56'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@herb\r\n\r\n\r\nYeah, I'm a whippersnapper next to you.\r\n1971 \r\n\r\nThe
    last all-male graduating class. I didn't attend, but at the reunion last year,
    Alice DeRivera, the woman who's lawsuit against the city broke the gender barrier
    gamely accepted an invitation. I say gamely because her family moved from New
    York shortly after she was accepted and she never actually attended Stuyvesant
    as a student.\r\n\r\nBTW - P. Stuyvesant was a Jew-hating son of a bitch.  But
    it's still hard for me not to admire him.  The toughest possible bastard you could
    imagine. (That much is clear. But I've still got a ways to go in the book. 14
    bucks via Kindle. BTW.)\r\n\r\nDid you play football by any chance? Even if not,
    Murl Thrush was probably coach when you were there. He retired a year after I
    graduated.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2012-08-10 05:46:31'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "For anyone interested in the phenomenon of Nostalgia, and in Books, I very
    much recommend \"The Future of Nostalgia\" by Svetlana Boym. I'm reading it at
    the moment, and it's very good, wideranging, funny and interesting.\r\n\r\n@Richard\r\nI
    realise Typophile is not dying, I just reflected on the very fact that things
    change, and that this fact, and the slump seemingly going on at the moment making
    me a bit nostalgic, for the old days. If you or anyone read this as an epitaph,
    this was not what I intended, and I'm still very much interested in contributing
    to Typophile in the years to come.\r\n\r\nTypophile is dead, long live Typophile!!
    :)"
  created: '2012-08-10 13:39:11'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Long Don't Live Typophile!
  created: '2012-08-10 22:37:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "From Twitter: \u201C<em>Further evidence of Typophile\u2019s demise :^( ...
    | Typophile http://typophile.com/node/59695</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nNot sure why or
    what is going on here, but perhaps focusing on positive and productive would be
    more fruitful. And in-fighting and name-calling within the same thread where people
    are complaining about just that, and leaving because of it? Really?\r\n\r\nHow
    about we start off by making a list, and ask for volunteers.\r\n\r\n1. Deleting
    posts does render a thread somewhat useless, and will certainly cripple us. Obviously,
    the result is a terms of service agreement. Anyone have any lawyer friends?\r\n\r\n2.
    Today\u2019s newbs are lacking. Agree, but why? One reason IMO, because we\u2019re
    \u201Cwell known suckers\u201D for doing their homework. Just stop doing it and
    help them help themselves. You\u2019re stunting their growth and pissing in your
    own pool.\r\n\r\n3. Search engine: find a coder.\r\n\r\n4. Banner: find a no-Flash
    solution (and a coder)\r\n\r\n5. Site re-design: Finish it. I will help. Just
    email me.\r\n\r\n6. Content: Work on the Wiki. I can help. Just email me.\r\n\r\n7.
    Moderators: if the were a more active presence, I believe this would help new
    users feel more comfortable participating lest they step into the middle of a
    cat-fight. This does of course raise the point of being mindful of of over-moderating,
    and deterring participation, but that doesn\u2019t mean we can\u2019t attempt
    to find a solution. For the thread, this is Wikipedia\u2019s bit on moderators:
    \r\n\r\n<em>The moderators (short singular form: \u201Cmod\u201D) are users (or
    employees) of the forum who are granted access to the posts and threads of all
    members for the purpose of moderating discussion (similar to arbitration) and
    also keeping the forum clean (neutralizing spam and spambots etc.).[12] Because
    they have access to all posts and threads in their area of responsibility, it
    is common for a friend of the site owner to be promoted to moderator for such
    a task. Moderators also answer users' concerns about the forum, general questions,
    as well as respond to specific complaints. They also can do anything to lend a
    helping hand to a user in need.[13] Moderators themselves may have ranks: some
    may be given mod privileges over only a particular topic or section (called \u201Clocal\u201D),
    while others (called \u201Cglobal\u201D or \u201Csuper\u201D) may be allowed access
    anywhere. Common privileges of moderators include: deleting, merging, moving,
    and splitting of posts and threads, locking, renaming, stickying of threads, banning,
    suspending, unsuspending, unbanning, warning the members, or adding, editing,
    removing the polls of threads.[14] \u201CJunior Modding\u201D, \u201CBackseat
    Modding\u201D, or \u201CForum copping\u201D can refer negatively to the behavior
    of ordinary users who take a moderator-like tone in criticizing other members.\r\n\r\nEssentially,
    it is the duty of the moderator to manage the day-to-day affairs of a forum or
    board as it applies to the stream of user contributions and interactions. The
    relative effectiveness of this user management directly impacts the quality of
    a forum in general, its appeal, and its usefulness as a community of interrelated
    users.\r\n\r\nModerators also have categories e.g. \u201CGlobal Moderators\u201D
    and just \u201CModerators.\u201D Global moderators have the rights to moderate
    the complete forum while moderators can be assigned only to the sub-forum.[15]</em>\r\n\r\nI
    believe someone needs to be given the authority to give orders and enforce them.
    Otherwise, we\u2019ll simply end up driving around in circles. Wait, we\u2019re
    already doing that.\r\n\r\nCurrently, I see people in panic mode. All I see is
    a rough patch and a few tweets. Rhetorical question: How does a 50 year marriage
    work? Because they have magically found \u201Cthe one\u201D and everything simply
    works perfectly? No. Because when shit hits the fan they have a cup of concrete,
    harden up, and work through it <strong>together</strong>.\r\n\r\nAnd as far as
    my \u201CI will help. Just email me\u201D comment, I mean it. I already spend
    1-3h a day here. I have my own ever-unfinished site, but given the prominence
    and history of Typophile, I\u2019d be more than willing to divide my attention.\r\n\r\n#soapbox"
  created: '2012-08-12 22:54:56'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I have a practical suggestion. It isn't criminal and doesn't involve hrant.\r\n\r\nPlease,
    please, subject each post within a thread to a word count and insert a 'read more'
    link after a set number of words. 1) It encourages people to get to the point.
    2) It makes scanning the thread for comments of interest a much quicker proposition.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, the balance of the stylistically truncated comment will still be there
    in the HTML  - search engines won't have any difficulties - and these days implementing
    a hide/show such as what I'm describing is a snap. I'm sure there are more plug-ins
    available for it than a developer would want to wade through.\r\n\r\nAnd if it's
    an issue of concern, a print style sheet can reveal everything hiding behind the
    'read more' links so that, on print, nothing goes unrevealed.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chris Dean
      picture: 111971
    body: "Great idea. Shall we start a \u201CTo do\u201D thread?\r\n\r\nDone.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/95527"
    created: '2012-08-13 00:15:06'
  created: '2012-08-12 23:41:33'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I'm up for #7 ...just email me.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-08-13 00:28:22'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: I think typophilers are tired.
  created: '2012-08-16 01:01:35'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: I think the current thread regarding the [[Adobe Devanagari Font]] is proof
    that Typophile is still capable of reaching great heights in important discussions
    around type that push things forward for the benefit of everyone. This is the
    kind of thread that initially drew me into the forum and from which I have learned
    so much over the years.
  created: '2012-08-18 10:33:46'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "A sad thread to see after being away for a few years :(\r\nI hope everyone's
    very well, especially all those who were so helpful and tolerant back then."
  created: '2012-08-18 21:59:20'
- author:
    name: Bezier Abuser
    picture: 113727
  body: "As a student who mostly lurks I don't pretend to speak for the whole \"class\",
    but I'll make clear some points I think people still don't get:\r\n\r\n\u2022
    All the other students I know who are interested in typography are on typophile
    in one way or another. There are hundreds of invisible users who are here studying
    and learning from the immense resource that is typophile, and not posting anything
    new. Which introduces point 2.\r\n\r\n\u2022 The search is broken. And it's not
    pretty. I think the administrator underestimates the importance of typophile as
    an help to research and understanding, because without search all those lurking
    people are helpless to say the least, and all this typopatrimony is virtually
    GONE. This is serious. Does a tree falling in a forest... ?\r\n\r\n\u2022 Anonymity
    is generally not accepted, but in a world of search engines it is necessary to
    hide while learning. Everything one posts on his behalf is potentially reachable
    by an employer or other professionals, and you can't imagine how much prejudice
    there is about learning via an online forum. Having some sort of editing or anonymity\u2014or
    making it not searchable\u2014may help the critique forum too, if you implement
    some kind of filter (1$ per thread?). Oh but wait, it is already not searchable!\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Hrant isn't a huge issue, not as much as people depict him. If you are on typophile
    for a while you know what he thinks and believes, and it's interesting (sometimes)
    to hear such a strong and uncommon viewpoints, though I should say that not banning
    him once is quite strange. Nevertheless there are people that think of him as
    the only reason of typophile's decline(?): this is much more extreme than anything
    ever posted by hrant."
  created: '2012-08-19 10:39:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I just want to say that, infighting between certain specific folks notwithstanding,
    one of the remarkable things that helped draw me into typography as a profession
    is how friendly and helpful so many people in the field are. Even quite a few
    Big Name People who don't have as much to gain by it, and are likely to have more
    of their time sucked up by it. When I first got really serious about type around
    1994, I emailed three such people, and every one of them emailed me back and was
    genuinely helpful. Robert Bringhurst, Chuck Bigelow, and Don Hosek. (Don may be
    kind of more obscure now, but at the time he was the publisher of a new typography
    magazine called Serif, and it was very cool.)\r\n\r\nAnyway, I for one am happy
    to try to give back to the community a bit now that I am blessed enough to have
    a decent-paying job doing stuff I love. That's why I'm on the ATypI board. That's
    why I took on an intern (Andrea Harrison) recently. It seems like a lot of my
    peers feel the same way. Andrea had a great experience at TypeCon, from the type
    crit to... well, everything I think. She felt welcomed and got boatloads of useful
    information and feedback.\r\n\r\nSo, as far as I can tell on average the professional
    type community is pretty cool and helpful to newcomers, and has been for a long
    time. Yes there's squabbling, and I know some folks have had negative experiences.
    That's a pity. But in general, compared to a lot of communities... pretty good."
  created: '2012-08-21 04:18:38'
date: '2012-08-07 09:08:12'
title: A thankyou to Typophile

---
