---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: "Recently I\u2019ve notices a bit of discussion about the demise of Typophile
  &c. and I\u2019ve detected a bit of a pattern: Rather than propose solutions, people
  seem to be bitching, moaning, arguing, leaving, and even deleting content. This
  thread is an attempt to help move things in a positive and productive direction:\r\n\r\n1.
  Deleting posts does render a thread somewhat useless, and will certainly cripple
  us. Obviously, the result is a terms of service agreement. Anyone have any lawyer
  friends?\r\n\r\n2. Today\u2019s newbs are lacking. Agree, but why? One reason IMO,
  because we\u2019re \u201Cwell known suckers\u201D for doing their homework. Just
  stop doing it and help them help themselves. You\u2019re stunting their growth and
  pissing in your own pool.\r\n\r\n3. Search engine: find a coder.\r\n\r\n4. Banner:
  find a no-Flash solution (and a coder)\r\n\r\n5. Site re-design: Finish it. I will
  help. Just email me.\r\n\r\n6. Content: Work on the Wiki. I can help. Just email
  me.\r\n\r\n7. Moderators: if the were a more active presence, I believe this would
  help new users feel more comfortable participating lest they step into the middle
  of a cat-fight. This does of course raise the point of being mindful of of over-moderating,
  and deterring participation, but that doesn\u2019t mean we can\u2019t attempt to
  find a solution.\r\n\r\n8. A \u201Cread more\u201D link on long posts to avoid long
  scrolls.\r\n\r\n9. Automatic turning of email addresses into links that launch an
  unwanted, and often unused, email client. This was considered poor practice 20 years
  ago.\r\n\r\nPlease feel free to add more. An to those with the power to make any
  of these changes, my supervisor has a rule of sorts: \u201CIf it takes less than
  2 minutes, do it now.\u201D Many little changes can add up."
comments:
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Instate time limit for editing posts.  Doesn't have to be as short as other
    sites.  A month sounds good.\r\n\r\nLessen the amount of different forums.  Honestly
    I wish it was only one, though I know others will shout this down."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chris Dean
      picture: 111971
    body: "A tough one. Time limit will raise what I suspect to be an endless debate
      of \u201Chow long?\u201D ending up in a standoff of \u201Cnever\u201D and \u201Cforever.\u201D\r\n\r\nPersonally,
      I think being able to edit any post is sketchy, as it pretty much screws the
      validity of the following responses. My vote would be for no editing, save for
      a 30 second \u201Cwhoops\u201D window. If you want to edit a comment, then simply
      make another post and the responses still hold true.\r\n\r\nThoughts?"
    created: '2012-08-13 01:04:12'
  created: '2012-08-13 00:28:30'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I'm up for #7 ...just email me.\r\n\r\nn.\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-13 00:34:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201CTo do\u201D volunteers: I\u2019ll be editing this list \u2014 and possibly
    the first one \u2014 to help keep things to the point, and hopefully expedite
    taking action.\r\n\r\n7: Volunteers for moderating\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/15065\">Christopher
    Dean</a> \u2014 typographer@gmail.com\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/52527\">Neil
    Caldwell</a>"
  created: '2012-08-13 00:59:01'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "C, that's an amazing email addy! I can be reached: neil at graphicdeclaration
    dot com.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-08-13 01:01:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: And if there is a moderator in the room, perhaps you can help us by ranking
    this list in terms of ease of implementation?
  created: '2012-08-13 01:04:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Some random considerations:\r\n<ol><li>Time-limited editing of posts was
    already implemented (albeit it could be circumvent if one knew how) until the
    last \u201Ctemp\u201D iteration. However understandably this was applied to \u201Ccomments\u201D,
    not to thread-starting posts.\r\nThis happened before: features lost because of
    a \u201Csystem upgrade\u201D. Once were \u201Csmart\u201D quotes, then \u201Cfeatured
    font\u201D headings, and so on. Which brings me to the second point.</li>\r\n<li>This
    site is built on Drupal. Drupal is hard. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/drupal-learningcurve_5673.jpg]
    Drupal is the typical example of something built to be everything to everyone,
    ending up being not enough for anyone.\r\nSo, you use plug-ins to add features.
    Then you upgrade Drupal and plug-ins stop working. Goodbye features.</li>\r\n<li>Same
    problem with moderators. Forum moderators need specific, limited permissions.
    Probably this kind of privilegies management is built-in in forum software. Not
    so in Drupal. I know for sure that one reason there aren\u2019t more moderators
    it\u2019s because of this problem.</li>\r\n<li>About the \u201Cread more link
    on long posts to avoid long scrolls\u201D, please don\u2019t. There is a (still*)
    working feature which is that if you click the \u201Cnew\u201D link (instead of
    the \u201Ctitle-of-thread\u201D link) you will be sent to the first unread post
    on the thread.</li>\r\n<li>I already have expressed, more than once, that the
    first, life-threatening issue which need to be addressed is the disappearance
    from search engines. The rest is secondary.</li></ol>\r\n\r\n* Except for threads
    with files attached to the initial post."
  created: '2012-08-13 09:20:46'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: There has been a marked decline in participation in the Critique forum since
    the temp site went live. I think this is due to the layout of the front page.
    The Type ID forum should be at the bottom and unexpanded (if it's there at all
    - which has been covered quite comprehensively in other threads). I think reinstating
    the 'hot topics' bit that used to be on the Flash front page would be a good idea.
  created: '2012-08-13 09:52:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'The ''new'' link doesn''t usually work for me on Win9/Firefox; it just takes
    me to the top of the thread. '
  created: '2012-08-13 12:40:13'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "For me, in Firefox/Win XP (and any other combination I tried on XP or OS
    X) anchors like the \u201Cnew\u201C or specific comments links behave as outlined
    by Kent here: http://typophile.com/node/91007?page=5#comment-504719"
  created: '2012-08-13 14:10:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charge a minimal amount for type IDs and/or make it easy to avoid ID threads.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-13 14:40:03'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>Charge a minimal amount for type IDs </em>\r\nI second this.  It would
    get rid of the freeloaders and earn some money for the site.  Not sure how it
    could be policed however.  You could set up a system for them to go through, but
    how would you keep them from just posting elsewhere on the site?"
  created: '2012-08-13 15:47:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean posting an ID request outside of the ID forum to avoid a charge?
    Riccardo has been extremely diligent about telling people to move their requests
    to the proper forum, so I'm hoping he could also remove offending threads.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-13 16:00:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"This site is built on Drupal\"\r\n\r\nThat actually explains a lot. ;)"
  created: '2012-08-13 16:56:02'
- author:
    name: phillipgessert
    picture: 124215
  body: If there were a mobile version someday, I'd sure stare at my phone a whole
    lot more.
  created: '2012-08-13 17:30:22'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>Riccardo has been extremely diligent about telling people to
    move their requests to the proper forum, so I'm hoping he could also remove offending
    threads.</blockquote>\r\nAbout removing threads, that would be possible only if
    I were an actual moderator, which isn\u2019t the case.\r\nI\u2019m just a regular
    user (albeit a diligent one ;-) and what I say doesn\u2019t come from any inside
    knowledge, but merely from reading threads, observation, personal experience,
    and brief and occasional exchanges with actual moderators.\r\n\r\nMoreover, I\u2019m
    against (at least in the present situation) the idea of charging for type IDs.
    It would cost less killing the \u201Cservice\u201D altogether.\r\nBut I\u2019m
    all for clearly distinguish it from the rest of the site."
  created: '2012-08-13 17:48:38'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: I don't know anything about web programming, but I will gladly donate my time
    as a moderator, or in any other way I can be useful. When I teach typography workshops,
    I always direct students to this site, in an attempt to keep some new blood coming
    in.
  created: '2012-08-13 18:15:05'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Oh, one more idea \u2014\r\n\r\nWhat about a forum for typography, as opposed
    to type design? That may be what the \"design\" forum is supposed to be, but that's
    always been ambiguous. I would like to see more graphic designers and typographers
    on here, in addition to the type designers.\r\n\r\nWhat about a letterpress forum?"
  created: '2012-08-13 18:42:06'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: '@Joshua: There are "Logos/ Corporate ID design" and "Typography/ Composition"
    topics within the Critique forum,  but yes, something less ambiguous to distinguish
    "type design" from "design using type" discussions in the upper section would
    be helpful.'
  created: '2012-08-14 00:23:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "A thing I've noticed is the \"Last Reply\" indicator does not ascend the
    hierarchy of nested forums. For example, when I post this reply, the time stamp
    will show for the correct time in [[http://typophile.com/forum/4|General Discussions]],
    but when viewed at the [[http://typophile.com/forums|Forums]] level, it will show
    12 Aug 2012 \u2014 4:13pm as the time of the Last Post in General Discussions.
    This gives the impression of lengthy inactivity, and should not be considered
    correct behavior.\r\n\r\n\r\nedit: It doesn't even do THAT. It shows the most
    resent topic creation date, which is still wrong. It should show the time of the
    most recent reply instead."
  created: '2012-08-14 10:25:33'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "Thanks Christopher. There's no shortage of things to do. It's the need for
    volunteers that pose a challenge. I'll contact you privately to follow-up.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-14 20:38:11'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: There is already a two-year-old list of bugs I filed, said list being ridiculed
    by everyone without ever fixing the bugs.
  created: '2012-08-14 20:42:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>There is already a two-year-old list of bugs I filed, said list
    being ridiculed by everyone without ever fixing the bugs.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDid
    you read Jared's post?\r\n\r\nBTW why would your list be implemented if everybody
    ridiculed it?But I doubt that everybody ridiculed your list - I for one remember
    that a lot of it made sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-14 23:00:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "If I may be so bold: it seems to me less a lack of volunteers (many people
    have expressed interest and willingness over the years) and more the lack of a
    suitable system for deploying volunteers \u2014 how to manage access to any and
    all comers (some system of vetting & restricting, for Punchcut to feel comfortable),
    how to manage any volunteer work in a reasonable fashion (whether it be code-directed
    improvements or behavior-directed moderation), etc.\r\n\r\nThese are not simple
    challenges. I hope that Jared, et al., can find a way to successfully transition
    from a closed system to a more open one, if they so choose."
  created: '2012-08-14 23:25:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Idea: a version of /tracker that filters ID requests. At any given time about
    80% of /tracker is \"name that font\" which makes finding any other content difficult.\r\n\r\nIdea:
    allow users to pick their own name. Possibly for a fee.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/readthetype\r\n\r\nIdea:
    Allow users to select a font they wish their name to appear in when you go to
    their profile page. A tall order, but I\u2019d drop a few dollars to see my name
    in Univers."
  created: '2012-08-15 22:34:47'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "If this domain were my  dot com (or if I was to manage it) I'd monetize this
    place. Not to the max but just enough to earn 'click revenue' ... and then you
    wouldn't have to worry because it would create enough revenue to at least toss
    some money at website development.  \r\n\r\nA friend of mine specializes in dot
    com development, I'll pick his brain to see what we could do. \r\n\r\nI think
    Typophile has oodles of awesomeness yet to be discovered....\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-08-16 04:47:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I think charging anything would most certainly kill the place once and for
    all. For a (not all that important) service such as \"name that font\" there are
    far too many free alternatives. This is simply the easiest for a lazy student.
    Charge a penny for it, and they will look somewhere else. What\u2019s even more
    likely would be someone else starts a type forum and steals the traffic.\r\n\r\nAnd
    even if we put a payment system into place, that\u2019s not going to fix any of
    the afore mentioned problems.\r\n\r\nIdea: @all Typophiles \u2014 <strong>Please</strong>
    stop signing posts. We know your wrote it. Your name is right there at the top
    by your profile. All it does is create a longer scroll."
  created: '2012-08-16 23:23:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Too many people who post type ID requests never use Typophile for anything
    else. We don't need people like that - in fact they might be part of the problem.
    Nevermind that type IDs are a great piracy tool.\r\n\r\nSignatures: It's the least
    of our problems. Mine, think of as a little foible, a personal tradition. Like
    a minor annoying habit of a college dorm room-mate.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-17 00:36:48'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I gots an idea. \r\n\r\nI don't know if it possible tho I'm not a webhead
    (but I wish I was). \r\n\r\nModerators could be assigned to the various sub-forums.
    Each sub-forum would have a unique/different password, that way no one moderator
    would be able to take down the entire site.  For instance, I'll moderate the Blogs
    forum and nuke posts like the spam one that's on top right now.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-08-27 03:41:21'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> that way no one moderator would be able to take down the entire site\r\n\r\nWhy
    would a moderator take down the site? Are you talking about malicious activity,
    or an accidental deletion of files? "
  created: '2012-08-27 04:28:27'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thanks JamesM, I meant accidental deletion of files/folders. I know first
    hand from moderating a chess forum (talk about your raging egos!), that it takes
    a team of mods to keep on top of spammers and malicious posts. \r\n\r\nn. "
  created: '2012-08-27 04:55:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'Theoretically, there is a team of mods: http://typophile.com/moderators'
  created: '2012-08-27 09:47:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Unfortunately, as you\u2019re probably well aware Riccardo, that list is
    sorely out of date. Most of those folks stop by Typophile now only once every
    couple of weeks, it seems. Some haven\u2019t been here in months. And Dan and
    Stephen (who have visited recently) have only partial privileges, which may not
    include spam moderation.\r\n\r\nAs far as I know, I\u2019m the only person who
    regularly checks for spam: daily \u2014 at least once in the morning, sometimes
    more depending upon my day. \r\n\r\nYou won\u2019t see my name on that Moderator
    list because when I volunteered I specifically told Jared I wasn\u2019t interested
    or willing to be a moderator (i.e., an arbiter of behavior). And I didn\u2019t
    want anyone contacting me with their problems.\r\n\r\nI volunteered to be a Janitor
    and clean up spam, double-posts, etc., because at the time Typophile was having
    a major spam problem (and you thought it was bad now) and the only folks able
    to do anything about it all lived in the same time zone (Pacific, UTC -8). I live
    in Eastern, UTC -4, and Florian came on to pick up some of the slack in Berlin,
    UTC +1.\r\n\r\nBut in the past year or so, it looks like things have dropped back
    to only one time zone. So, depending upon when the spam gets posted, it may stay
    visible for up to 24 hours.\r\n\r\nAs it so happens, I\u2019ve recently informed
    Jared and Joe that I will step down from my janitorial duties as of next weekend,
    Sept 1. It has become too much of a time suck and I wish to apply myself in other
    directions right now.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know if Jared has made any other arrangements
    yet. I certainly hope he does. I\u2019ve put forward some suggestions. As I said
    before, I\u2019m sure there will be no lack of volunteers. But it\u2019s a matter
    of who the Punchcut guys wish to entrust and how they want to manage that. At
    the end of the day, it\u2019s their site."
  created: '2012-08-27 13:55:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, thanks for all your efforts. I do hope we'll still see you around though!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-27 14:09:17'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Some haven\u2019t been here in months\r\n\r\nBased on my experience as
    a moderator in other forums, it's common for someone to volunteer with the best
    of intentions but then gradually drift away due to lack of time or other reasons.
    \r\n\r\nIt helps if you can clearly define the responsibilities of each moderator,
    and have one moderator in a supervisory position who makes sure things get done
    and who can pick a replacement moderator if an existing one drifts away. \r\n\r\nResponsibilities
    need to be simple and realistic, considering that it's a volunteer position. "
  created: '2012-08-27 16:52:39'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Thanks, Hrant. I expect I\u2019ll still come around and participate in the
    few threads that interest me. It\u2019s the daily responsibility/expectation (real
    or self-imagined) that I need to move out from under.\r\n\r\nJames \u2014 Yes,
    in a word: management. And for that, one ultimately has to look to the top, Punchcut.
    It all must flow from there."
  created: '2012-08-27 22:42:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Soo, this thread was started as a result of a previous Typophile thread,
    \u201C<a href=http://typophile.com/node/95377\">A thankyou to Typophile</a>\u201D
    which speaks of our downfall.\r\n\r\nThis thread is a response and call to action.
    Essentially, now try to follow me here, instead of talking about problems, lets
    try to actually <em>solve</em> them.\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s a bunch of ideas in here.\r\n\r\n@ANYONE
    with ANY authority, has any action been taken, or are we still thinking about
    why things suck and complaining about them? Do we even plan on taking action?
    Should one of us simply build a new Typophile to replace this one? \r\n\r\nGiven
    the obvious and repeated nature of the problems here, new blood simply putting
    Typophile off the map wouldn\u2019t be that hard. All the big-guns barely even
    talk, and by my count, 80% of the traffic here is font ID\u2019s and homework
    help. Very little substance. Following tweets is more fruitful at this point.\r\n\r\nI\u2019d
    love to make Typophile 2.0 but I don\u2019t know how to code. Any volunteers who\u2019s
    care to help me? \r\n\r\nReach me at typographer@gmail.com"
  created: '2012-08-29 02:22:31'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: 'What about public funding to hire a well experienced small studio team using
    <a href="http://kickstarter.com" target="_blank">Kickstarter</a> for a new Wordpress
    based Typophile site? '
  created: '2012-08-31 11:16:49'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "For what it's worth, this place for me is somewhere I can come to get a ages
    worth of collective knowledge from some of the best in the field.\r\nWe all operate
    in a niche environment and the geographical distances involved are vast - I'd
    gladly pay a maintenance fee to continue that access.\r\n\r\nI agree with Christophers
    comments regarding the current state of affairs...and twitter has indeed usurped
    typohile as my place to gain access to current trends or hot topics. I think typophiles
    correct place is within the critique, build, and discussions arenas - it requires
    a system capable of supporting those actions. - I don't believe wordpress is the
    solution either.\r\nI also think PunchCut have done an amazing job to put the
    foundations in place for this community...I kind of feel us bitching and whining
    is a bit of a liberty / piss take.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-31 11:32:49'
- author:
    name: Bezier Abuser
    picture: 113727
  body: I second the kickstarter project, I can really see it going well!
  created: '2012-08-31 12:46:37'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I myself spent more than a thought about the viability of a Kickstarter funding
    in order to reignite Typophile. It would  be beneficial from a technical perspective:
    make it works as a platform (which means the forum, but also typographic education,
    Type Battles, and, yes, Type ID too). One could also hope it would sparkle some
    publicity, raising a wider interest in Typophile.\r\nBut, apart from the difficulty
    of defining the scope of a Kickstarter project (and the reward tiers for backers,
    etc.), I think that, even if successful, in the long run it will not be a real
    solution.\r\nAs I see it, the main problem with Typophile (and any website for
    that matter), lies in maintenance. This means long term commitment and daily overseeing.
    And that\u2019s not something one can really fund.  "
  created: '2012-08-31 14:01:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">As I see it, the main problem with Typophile (and any website for that matter),
    lies in maintenance. This means long term commitment and daily overseeing. And
    that\u2019s not something one can really fund.\r\n\r\nI thought the Typophile
    'membership' badges were supposed to fund maintenance and improvement. Perhaps
    they could be made more useful if non-badge people were limited in some way, for
    example in their maximum number of posts."
  created: '2012-08-31 14:24:56'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "@Bendy Is that what the badges are for? I never knew that...feel bad now!\r\n\r\n@riccardo0
    agree with all your points, only I saw Typophile as more of a resource, rather
    than something which needed wider awareness (aside from educational purposes).
    Type battles, ID or any of that stuff have other services which do those things,
    and arguably better.\r\nI guess I see it as a resource worth paying for - which
    again, should remove the major amount of maintenance? Which, as far as I'm aware
    is mainly spam/erroneous postings/rogue users - surely a subscription model would
    go some way to removing? Or maybe invite/probation? I do realise I sound like
    a despot at this point...\r\nAlso, KickStarter would imply there is some profit
    to be made/shared...I can't believe that is a viable proposition. Although it's
    an excellent method to garner funding, I'm sure there are other ways.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-31 14:33:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>I thought the Typophile 'membership' badges were supposed to
    fund maintenance and improvement.</blockquote>\r\n \r\nProblem is, the badges
    program wasn't really maintained. :-("
  created: '2012-08-31 14:41:15'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>I saw Typophile as more of a resource, rather than something
    which needed wider awareness</blockquote>\r\nApart the present unreachability
    of said resource, if no one adds to it, it would become useful as the 1911\u2019s
    Encyclop\xE6dia Britannica Eleventh Edition."
  created: '2012-08-31 15:17:42'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: '@riccard0 Bwahahaha, that''s funny, true, and kinda sad at the same time.'
  created: '2012-08-31 15:43:10'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "Hmm. What if Typophile created some sort of Pro-like subscription with an
    annual cost to be a member that has access to specific areas. Something like Type
    Directors Club, of course not as expensive.\r\n\r\nI think Kickstarter is a great
    idea. Not just for revamping the site but also exposure. The rewards don't always
    have to be a physical product (special thank you on the site, free pro subscription,
    special access, etc). However, I honestly don't think T-shirts with the Typophile
    logo would be such a bad idea as one those rewards. Even a certificate for becoming
    a member. I don't know, just throwing out ideas.\r\n\r\nWhat about ad revenue
    using a service like <a href=\"http://buysellads.com\" target=\"_blank\">BuySellAds.com</a>?\r\n\r\nSurely
    there are people here who would be willing to do maintenance?\r\n\r\nIn saying
    all this, I have doubt that paying for help (ID) will only hurt the site rather
    than be beneficial. Others come here because of the knowledgeable resource."
  created: '2012-08-31 15:53:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Typophile is a sort of altruistic place, but if making a bit of extra money
    is the only way to get Punchcut's head back in the game, so be it. BTW, I don't
    think there's a lack of exposure; virtually anybody who designs type -or even
    starts dabbling in it- already knows about Typophile, and I personally don't want
    to see an invasion of broader graphic design.\r\n\r\nI'm probably repeating myself
    here and there, but here are some things I'd propose:\r\n- Don't panic.\r\n- Get
    the search working, or at least let Google back in.\r\n- If Google is given access
    again, figure out the spam situation.\r\n- Charge some sort of membership fee
    for heavy use.\r\n- Charge a nominal \"barrier\" amount for type ID requests.\r\n-
    Don't try to please everybody, certainly not pricks who don't even like the Internet
    and/or an open exchange of expertise/opinion to begin with. This is not a cocktail
    party.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-31 16:40:15'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "@hrant very much my feelings on the subject. I'd rather see this place become
    more specialised, not broader in purpose. \r\n\r\nQuestion...Where has this feeling
    of 'more exposure' come from? Pretty much any search to do with typographic build
    or design brings you here (or used to).\r\n\r\nedit: the world really doesn't
    need more tees affiliated to some obscure meme. Even a worthy one such as this."
  created: '2012-08-31 16:55:06'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>This is not a cocktail party.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo, but I have
    often thought that 2600 style meetings in the real world would be good fun with
    the Typophile crowd. Mustering a sufficient number of people in the same geographic
    location on a regular basis could be a little more difficult though... \r\n\r\nHrant,
    I remember seeing a video or some photos of you from one of the type conventions
    a few years ago taking your laptop onto the street to work on a font until the
    battery died, which is what made me think of it originally."
  created: '2012-08-31 16:56:06'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>virtually anybody who designs type -or even starts dabbling in
    it- already knows about Typophile</blockquote>\r\nEven if it were true, how many
    of them are participating?"
  created: '2012-08-31 17:06:40'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "@riccard0 with all due...this isn't twitter or facebook...and neither should
    it be. More than often I've found the information contained in the posts more
    than enlightening for the subject in hand. Participation was neither warranted
    or required...ego filling omitted.\r\n\r\nFor me, this is more about cementing
    this information into something for prosperity and use. It's my opinion that the
    community comes alive when a subject is in hand...just look at the debates on
    printers, opentype and web fonts. Heated, passionate and informative."
  created: '2012-08-31 21:01:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Karl: Organizing friendly social events by using Typophile as a \"geolocator\"*
    is a great idea - I've engaged in that kind of thing myself, although perhaps
    not enough. It's just that Typophile itself can't be conducive to cultural progress
    (to me its highest calling) if the social angle becomes too pronounced.\r\n\r\n*
    http://typophile.com/forum/14\r\n\r\n<blockquote>taking your laptop onto the street
    to work on a font until the battery died</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat was such strange
    fun. Eben Sorkin and I first did that during the LA TypeCon and were joined by
    a few more people (including a conference attendee by the name of Claire who initiated
    a great analog component) at the New Orleans TypeCon. LA: http://www.typecon.com/archives/69
    and http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/4911947563 NO: http://www.typecon.com/archives/400
    and http://www.typecon.com/archives/860\r\n\r\nRiccardo: I agree that more active
    participation would be great, but broader exposure of Typophile would probably
    simply dilute any discussions we do have, since it would draw in people who aren't
    really dedicated to type (because dedicated people already know about it).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Karl Stange
      picture: 118040
    body: "<blockquote>Organizing friendly social events by using Typophile as a \"geolocator\"*
      is a great idea - I've engaged in that kind of thing myself, although perhaps
      not enough. It's just that Typophile itself can't be conducive to cultural progress
      (to me its highest calling) if the social angle becomes too pronounced.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAfter
      posting that I was having a drink in one of my favourite bars in London and
      stumbled across a comics group in the back room, mainly writers and artists,
      but soon discovered that Rian Hughes was there as well. I didn't get a chance
      to talk to him but being surrounded by that energy and enthusiasm was great.
      I agree, as far as Typophile goes, it is positive to mention what is happening
      here but it shouldn't be the focus and really I suppose that is what the various
      type conventions are for."
    created: '2012-09-03 11:45:00'
  created: '2012-08-31 22:20:35'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "My remarks about exposure and participation weren\u2019t about making Typophile
    the new Facebook.\r\nThey were meant to be a reminder that in order for any community*
    to survive (and hopefully thrive) there need to be a critical mass (however small)
    of people involved, and thus a certain rate of new people \u201Creplacing\u201D
    those that became less present.\r\nAs for diluting (http://typophile.com/node/95976#comment-520672),
    the advantage of exposure would be to remind the people that already know about
    Typophile that it\u2019s a good place to hang around. And with enough interested
    people (and some fair moderation), the specificity of the matters discussed would
    filter off the excessive noise.\r\n\r\n* or resource. "
  created: '2012-08-31 22:54:16'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> a certain rate of new people \u201Creplacing\u201D \r\n> those that became
    less present\r\n\r\nIn the 2 years or so that I've been here, I've never had the
    feeling that Typophile was welcoming to newcomers. \r\n\r\nWhen new people introduce
    themselves, there's rarely much of a response. When students post a \"what's this
    font\" or \"help me with my homework\" post, they are viewed by some as a nuisance
    to be gotten rid of, rather than as potential members.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Karl Stange
      picture: 118040
    body: "<blockquote>In the 2 years or so that I've been here, I've never had the
      feeling that Typophile was welcoming to newcomers.\r\n\r\nWhen new people introduce
      themselves, there's rarely much of a response. When students post a \"what's
      this font\" or \"help me with my homework\" post, they are viewed by some as
      a nuisance to be gotten rid of, rather than as potential members.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn
      my experience Typophile has treated new people with the same respect granted
      others, in that when a serious question is posed or discussion started, detailed
      and helpful responses are forthcoming. I have very limited experience with other
      web forums but I do not know what people expect from merely introducing themselves;
      if you walk into a room of a strangers, many of them professionals and all with
      a common interest, they will likely welcome you but if you have nothing to contribute
      and no questions, what more should you hope for?\r\n\r\nAs for font ID requests,
      there is a well established section of the forum to deal with those.\r\n\r\nIn
      my fairly limited experience in the wider font community, most people working
      in the industry have had to learn everything from the ground up, learning and
      often innovating new technologies as they go. This is knowledge that people
      are generally willing to share but only when it comes to people that are interested
      in pushing their own understanding further. When people come on here asking
      for the benefit of knowledge that everyone else has worked hard to acquire,
      without appreciating how to get there or why, I am not surprised that responses
      are limited."
    created: '2012-09-03 11:35:39'
  created: '2012-09-01 02:34:23'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "Karl your a fellow london native?\r\nHow many more of us are there? I like
    type...and I like beer. Type and Beer sounds like a good shin dig."
  created: '2012-09-03 12:15:15'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "How about appointing/anointing/promoting/paying some editors? The range and
    depth of erudition available on this site is both amazing and humbling. OTOH,
    the petty squabbles (a.k.a. pissing contests) which occasionally arise distract
    from the overall effort.\r\n\r\nPerhaps a separate site\u2014fully catalogued
    and indexed, with searchable abstracts, would better serve the entire typographic
    community. Reserve this place for the sausage-making: we're all grown-ups here,
    aren't we?\r\n\r\nForget the social angle: let's set up a network of mentors who
    can teach the clueless pups. I am certain that colleges and universities would
    love to have access to a local type guru from time to time."
  created: '2012-09-03 12:19:11'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Karl your a fellow london native?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI am indeed.
    I don't want to de-rail this thread but happy to arrange meeting for beer and
    type discussion. I will look at setting up something along the lines of what hrant
    has already done but for London, in the [[http://typophile.com/forum/2|Special
    Interest Groups]].\r\n\r\nNick, those are fine ideas. While getting anyone paid
    for their time through the site is probably unlikely, the idea of more specific
    mentorship for those willing (and not already doing so) would no doubt appeal
    to a number of people here. This site probably represents the single greatest
    technical typographic resource on the web, fully indexed and searchable it would
    be a formidable resource and when it was indexed by Google that is pretty much
    what it was."
  created: '2012-09-03 13:36:21'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "Yes, it is unfortunate when threads get bogged down with personal disagreements.
    I suppose that is always a danger though. Trying to imagine a physical manifestation
    of the sight makes me think of a low-lit basement bar, lots of whisky being drunk
    and plenty of, \"let's take it outside\" conclusions to conversations. That said,
    when I have actually met people who contribute here in person it has always been
    incredibly civilised!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>2. The search engine sucks, period.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIs
    there a straightforward way of fixing the site search functionality or would that
    require a mammoth effort and re-indexing everything? Sorry, just re-read Christopher's
    opening post."
  created: '2012-09-03 13:46:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Karl\u2014\r\n\r\nAgreed that this site is an incredible resource, but\u2026\r\n\r\n1.
    The rancor among some members does a disservice to the community as a whole, which
    is why I suggested a separate, edited, abstracted and comprehensively indexed
    \"other\" site; and\r\n\r\n2. The search engine sucks, period."
  created: '2012-09-03 13:58:52'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I do not know what people expect from \r\n> merely introducing themselves\r\n\r\nKarl,
    I guess my comment was aimed more at the moderators. In forums where I've been
    a moderator, we always tried to make newcomers feel welcome.  \r\n\r\nYears ago
    I made my first post at a different forum. I accidentally violated forum etiquette
    and was blasted by a long-time member. I was so embarrassed that I decided never
    to post again, but then a forum moderator posted a friendly welcome and invited
    me to continue participating, so I did, and eventually I became a moderator. \r\n\r\nNewcomers
    often feel awkward, don't know what to say, and often make mistakes. A little
    friendly encouragement and guidance can sometimes help them through that initial
    rough period and lead to them becoming good members of the group.\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-03 17:38:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree, and I for can/will do better in that respect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-03 17:43:40'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "OK, I just read the whole thread.\r\n\r\nBut before getting my opinion out,
    I must pose a question: Why was the design changed?"
  created: '2012-09-03 23:38:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>Why was the design changed?</blockquote>\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/91007"
  created: '2012-09-04 00:00:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Why was the design changed?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTwo bad apples.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-04 00:08:51'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Newcomers often feel awkward, don't know what to say, and often
    make mistakes. A little friendly encouragement and guidance can sometimes help
    them through that initial rough period and lead to them becoming good members
    of the group.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI agree that making newcomers welcome is the
    best approach and one likely to encourage contribution and involvement, I suppose
    I am focusing on those posts where people are simply declaring their presence
    when this has always felt like a very hands on forum where the best approach is
    to jump in.\r\n\r\nI know that I have made mistakes myself but have always just
    moved on while trying to understand where I went wrong, but I suppose silence
    and a lack of encouragement can be intimidating."
  created: '2012-09-04 11:31:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Still wondering if we have any progress to report. We appear to be going
    off topic. Not to say that not/welcoming newcomers isn\u2019t important, it just
    wasn\u2019t the purpose of this thread.\r\n\r\nThis is a great example of when,
    if I had administrative permission, I would relocate this portion of the discussion
    to keep the thread on task."
  created: '2012-09-04 20:28:25'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Ya 4 sure eh, meanwhile ... the spammers are living well in the Blogs forum.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-09-04 20:57:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Not to say that not/welcoming newcomers isn\u2019t important, \r\n> it
    just wasn\u2019t the purpose of this thread.\r\n\r\nYour initial post which started
    this thread contained 9 points, and 2 of them concerned newcomers. \r\n\r\nIn
    #2 you said \"Today\u2019s newbs are lacking... Just stop doing [their homework]...\"
    \ (The majority of these students are newcomers.)\r\n\r\nIn #7 you said \"Moderators:
    if they were a more active presence, I believe this would help new users feel
    more comfortable...\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-05 00:19:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>Still wondering if we have any progress to report. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nChristopher
    \u2014 I guess you still haven\u2019t figured it out: What we have here is a tenement
    with an absentee landlord. Been that way for years now.\r\n\r\nYou may have a
    better chance of getting any response (but only just maybe) if you try contacting
    the Jared directly:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/3/contact \r\nor \r\ntypophile@punchcut.com\r\n\r\nBut
    good luck with that even."
  created: '2012-09-06 12:32:00'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "Thanks, Kent. Yes- Shoot me a message. I try to reply to everything I see.\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't get an immediate response, don't read into it. I probably just haven't
    gotten to it yet, but will.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-06 16:21:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jared, please at least fix the search as soon as possible, even if it means
    letting in more spam. The solution to the king's headache is not to decapitate
    him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-06 16:29:52'
- author:
    name: John Lyttle
    picture: 117549
  body: .
  created: '2012-09-06 17:08:03'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Random thoughts:\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if there was more money available that
    things would change. Convince me otherwise.\r\n\r\nEvery iteration of Typophile,
    no matter how \"improved,\" hobbled or disabled something that was well liked
    and fully functional. How long do you expect loyal and long-time users to put
    up with that?\r\n\r\nI used to subscribe to a newsletter about English language
    usage, but the price was high. Even worse, the articles were so damned \"correct\"
    they were boring and uninteresting. So I never renewed. I do subscribe to a computer
    newsletter (Windows Secrets), which has a free section and a paid section. I subscribe
    to the paid section, and users determine how much to contribute. I used to go
    to the NY Times daily. Now I only go there as a result of a search, or a link
    from another site.\r\n\r\nShould Typophile remain free? A \"first 10 posts\" free
    model would not prevent one-time annoyances or do-my-homework posts. How about
    read free and contribute what you will to post for a year (with a $X [$2-5?] minimum,
    and with \"membership badges\" for those who contribute over a certain amount.)
    I was recently directed to a site that said something like \"You have to be registered
    to read this article. Registration is free.\" It annoyed the crap out of me. Since
    I already had the answer I wanted, reading the article was for my own information
    and pleasure, and the site was one I wouldn't come back to, I declined to register.
    Others may have higher or lower annoyance levels.\r\n\r\nWould someone please
    explain (or point me to an explanation) of just what the relationship is between
    Punchcut and Typophile?\r\n\r\nWhat makes Typophile so wonderful are the people
    on it; what makes it so bad is the dysfunction of the web design. Based on the
    website, I'd never use Punchcut for anything.\r\n\r\nAs for Search, what about
    using Google Toolbar with the \"Search this site\" function?\r\n\r\nPissing contests
    and rancor come with the territory. Really obnoxious or serial offenders should
    be warned, and barred if persistent.\r\n\r\nSince it's impossible for a moderator
    to read every single post (to find inappropriate/offensive material), how about
    a \"Report\" link on the bottom of posts?\r\n\r\n\"We don't need people like that,\"
    \"get rid of the freeloaders,\" are attitudes that will kill Typophile.\r\n\r\nRequire
    all posts to be previewed; that will reduce the need to edit."
  created: '2012-09-07 11:48:12'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "@Hrant: Search: I asked Google to re-index over a week ago. There's a bigger
    problem on our side where the engine is not indexing the forum content. I'm trying
    to figure out why.\r\n\r\n@RenMan: Typophile runs pretty much independently from
    Punchcut. Punchcut pays the bills and ensures that Typophile is always here for
    the community to enjoy. We work on it whenever we can, but look to the collective
    Typophile community to help shape and define what Typophile is, visually and culturally.
    It's been that way since Day 1 and I expect it always will be.\r\n\r\nAcknowledged,
    the site needs lots of work. I couldn't agree more.\r\n\r\nTypophile was created
    to share knowledge in a welcoming, sharing atmosphere. We were all students once,
    so we could stand to be much more tolerant of new members of our community. \r\n\r\nAnd
    remember, every family reunion has the crazy aunt or uncle. While they might be
    quirky or annoying, we love them and accept them nonetheless. \r\n\r\nI expect
    we'd explore every other fund-raising option before charging users for access.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-07 22:18:00'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: With regards to editing posts - allow unlimited editing, but keep a public
    archive of all past versions. It lets you change your mind, but it also makes
    you think twice before saying anything.
  created: '2012-09-09 15:03:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Steve, good stuff.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, charging money would in effect get
    rid of \"people like that\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-09 15:05:48'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "OK, here's my 2 cents:\r\n\r\n- Charging for the website is ridiculous. I
    would prefer to have ads or to give a donation in order for the thing to go on.
    Segregating knowledge: no way. I believe that this is a forum, not a club. And
    if Punchcut is supporting this website, here I go: THANK YOU, PUNCHCUT!\r\n\r\n-
    About the newcomers and topics that are not-so-relevant, maybe a restructuring
    of the different forums could help. As Jared told, we were once students as well.
    And we also asked \"dumb\" questions, that might have seemed obvious, but we needed
    to ask in order to learn. How about a sub-forum dedicated to newbies?\r\n\r\n-
    About the homepage, the former one was way better. If the problem is flash, do
    it in HTML. Done. Solved.\r\n\r\n- And the overall design (the current one) is
    confusing. Very confusing. Jared, if you need a helping hand, please ping me.\r\n\r\nGuys,
    if you're still around this forum, that's because you had good experiences here.
    I found lots of good stuff here, personally. Got helped. Helped some. Isn't this
    something worth preserving and improving?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2012-09-15 00:26:11'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Is it only me who can no longer edit my first posts? Would be good to get
    this fixed.
  created: '2012-09-19 20:26:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'No, Dave, you''re not alone: http://typophile.com/node/96238'
  created: '2012-09-20 11:38:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Judging by the number of type ID requests appearing in the Solved section,
    I'd recommend not having the "Solved Sans, Serif, Script/Handwriting" etc more
    prominent than the "Type ID Board" section. I made that mistake recently and I
    thought I knew the site.
  created: '2012-09-21 10:51:05'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "I agree. It should be a cheap and easy first step to hide the names of all
    boards listed below the type ID board. Put them in a menu that\u2019s closed by
    default. Maybe the guidelines could be excluded, but nobody reads them anyway,
    so I think it would be best to keep this one entry visible: \u2018Type ID Board\u2019.
    Or at least get everything below \u2018Solved IDs\u2019 (i.e. categories like
    \u2018Sans Serif\u2019 that seem to mislead so many people) out of sight. The
    type ID board might not be the most relevant part of the forum, but it\u2019s
    the most popular one and all the miscategorised postings suck."
  created: '2012-09-22 11:32:52'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/81517">A list of lists</a>
  created: '2012-09-23 22:42:16'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Bendy, R.:\r\n\r\nWhen the subfora with categories for solved IDs were introduced,
    our input was requested: http://www.typophile.com/node/65232\r\nI spoke out against
    it, and everybody else did so, too: unnecessary, not helpful, overcomplicating
    and slowing down things, etc. Nevertheless, this new \u2018feature\u2019 was not
    removed.\r\n\r\nThe topic came up again later: http://typophile.com/node/71918\r\nAgain,
    I said: \u201Clet\u2019s get rid off the \u2018Solved IDs\u2019 fora.\u201D \r\nNothing
    has happened, no reaction whatsoever.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\nit's common for someone
    to volunteer with the best of intentions but then gradually drift away due to
    lack of time or other reasons. \u2014 <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/95527?from=0&comments_per_page=5000#comment-520143\">JamesM</a></blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis
    is exactly what has happened in my case. I used to administrate the Type ID Board
    for quite a while, on a daily base. Occasionally, I could help Kent out a little
    with the spam squashing. Recently, I am lacking both time and motivation to continue
    to do so.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>As it so happens, I\u2019ve recently informed Jared
    and Joe that I will step down from my janitorial duties as of next weekend, Sept
    1. It has become too much of a time suck and I wish to apply myself in other directions
    right now. \u2014 <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/95527?from=0&comments_per_page=5000#comment-520127\">Kent</a></blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    will do the same. Yes, maybe I should have announced this first, before quitting
    the admin work. Well, I had hoped that things would improve over time, and that
    I would be on hiatus only. (And theoretically, there are at least 2 more Type
    ID admins.) But since search engines stopped indexing Typophile, my admin work
    has become even more tedious and, to some extent, technically impossible \u2013
    think of linking to similar threads, looking up existing information, etc. My
    impression is that the amount of time and effort is totally disproportionate to
    the benefit for the ID requesters and the fellow IDers. \r\nI am not a masochist."
  created: '2012-09-29 20:14:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Kent and Florian, thanks for the many many hours you''ve put into keeping
    the site clean and usable in past years. '
  created: '2012-09-29 21:06:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thanked Kent earlier, so: thank you Florian! And in case you're ever tempted
    to feel bad: you've already done more than most.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 21:21:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes. Thanks are due to you both for your efforts. It's a massive shame Punchcut
    are alienating the admins and users this way.
  created: '2012-09-29 23:45:46'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Spam in http://typophile.com/node/72538 & http://typophile.com/node/92345
    :(
  created: '2012-09-30 02:15:36'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Today while out over at the grocery store I happen to notice cans of Spam
    ... I thought to myself ... f*ck who's moderating this aisle aways. \r\n\r\nI
    reported the Spam at check-out :)\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-09-30 03:08:46'
date: '2012-08-13 00:13:03'
node_type: forum
title: 'Typophile to do:'

---
