---
author:
  name: geraintf
  picture: 110492
body: "Dear Typophiles,\r\n\r\nIn September I have to typeset a big report (about
  120,000 words). It's one I wrote incidentally, and the subject is post-war school
  buildings in England. c.100 copies will be digitally printed, but most people will
  read the doc in pdf format as it will be available online.\r\n\r\nThe documents
  has to comply with the house style and the report series format of my organisation
  (info below), which severely limits my options. But I want to do everything I can,
  within these limits, to ease the typographical pain!  So any suggestions welcome,
  particularly in relation to:\r\n\r\n1.Point size/leading.  I wondered what people
  point size /leading people would recommend for extended text in Gill Sans Light
  on a text block which is about 150x230mm. 11/13 seems to give around 16 words/line
  --is this ok? \r\n\r\n2. Each chapter consists of a main text, followed by a gazetteer
  which describes a series of case studies. I would expect most readers to read the
  main text but only 'dip into' the gazetteer. So I was thinking of putting the latter
  into two columns and small type, say 9/11. Any thoughts?\r\n\r\n3. My references
  will be in endnotes at the end of each chapter (again, part of the house style).
  I was thinking of putting them into 9 or 8 points in two columns. Is this going
  test Gill Light or my readers eyes?\r\n\r\nFormat: Soft-bound A4 report, double-sided.
  \r\nMargins: L&R 30mm; top 35mm, bottom 45mm\r\nTypeface: Gill sans light.\r\n\r\nI
  will try out a few mockups tomorrow, and may post a few pdfs. Meanwhile, any advice
  welcome! \r\n\r\nThanks in advance,\r\n\r\nGeraint"
comments:
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: I just tried formatting your post in Gill Sans Light and it was barely readable.
    Does anyone in your organisation actually read these things, or is the house style
    a reflection of reading habits?
  created: '2012-08-22 14:55:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>120,000 words .... in Gill Sans Light</blockquote>\r\n\r\nShirley
    you can't be serious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: lapata017
    body: i like this report
    created: '2012-08-27 06:52:10'
  created: '2012-08-22 19:39:07'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "So Gill Sans Light for extended text is a no-no? Or just at smaller sizes?
    I read quite a bit of it at 11pt and always found it comfortable.\r\n\r\nHere's
    a previous report in  similar format [img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSC05449_4206.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSC05451_6253.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSC05454_3571.JPG]"
  created: '2012-08-23 09:20:55'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "That report is available here:\r\nhttp://www.google.co.uk/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CCQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fservices.english-heritage.org.uk%2FResearchReportsPdfs%2F043_2009WEB.pdf&ei=-eg1UKLdH-il0QXT0oCADw&usg=AFQjCNG8Rcj6HJeGP5IZ73TB5tLny_llkQ\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-23 09:28:28'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: The report you linked to is fascinating but having just skimmed through it
    on my iPhone, the extensive text in Gill Sans Light is off putting. Granted, the
    iPhone is a restrictive medium for extended reading but one that I use for that
    purpose and following a recent download of Instapaper and a recommendation from
    someone with considerably more experience in such matters, I have been enjoying
    reading text in [[http://processtypefoundry.com/fonts/elena/|Elena]].
  created: '2012-08-23 09:55:43'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: The spacing is far too tight.
  created: '2012-08-23 11:21:37'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "Thanks for the feedback--sobering stuff. Clearly I've two options available
    to me:\r\n1. To go with the stipulated typeface (Gill Sans Light) but set it as
    carefully as I can for extended reading(open up the spacing as Andreas suggests,
    maybe slightly larger point size and/or more leading).\r\n2. To make a case to
    break withthe house style and go for a face which performs better both on screen
    and in print. (Typographically of course this is preferable; logistically might
    not be easy, but that's my problem I suppose). Options might be Charter, which
    I think we use in other applications, or perhaps something like Constantia.\r\n\r\nPlease
    keep the comments coming!\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2012-08-23 12:23:04'
- author:
    name: mjr
    picture: 112731
  body: "Gill Sans Light is not meant for body text. My suggestion is your second
    option, but keep GSL for illustration captions, and perhaps page numbers. The
    other weights of Gill Sans are still acceptable for headings, chapter titles,
    etc. As for the text, my first choice would be Gentium, which I have found to
    be a good pairing with Gill Sans headers. It is not excessively \"round\" (as
    Gill Sans is), and does not have very sharp serifs which would be a distraction
    in this case. Of the two you mentioned. Constantia also has those characteristics.\r\n\r\nIt's
    a lot like pairing food and wine."
  created: '2012-08-23 12:41:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You need to fight for #2 tooth and nail. It shouldn't even be a sans. But
    if they insist on that, go for Legato.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-23 14:14:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'll second Hrant's suggestion of Legato. It is one of <em>very</em> few
    sans serifs that works well for extended text (in large part due to being properly
    spaced for such use).\r\n\r\nAlso, if your report contains anything like the number
    of dates as the one to which you linked, you should definitely use a font that
    has oldstyle numerals available."
  created: '2012-08-23 19:51:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There\u2019s nothing wrong with Gill Sans Light for body text.\r\nThe spec
    here meets accessibility standards.\r\nHowever, I don\u2019t like the way the
    font in the pdf is spaced; too tight, too much kerning\u2014this is especially
    an issue for screen reading.\r\nWhy is the spacing so ghastly? Is it the font
    or Adobe\u2019s \u201COptical\u201D kerning?\r\nThe typeface was not designed
    to be spaced this way.\r\n\r\nDisclaimer: I was acclimatized to it at an early
    age, it was the typeface used in my Meccano manuals."
  created: '2012-08-23 20:21:03'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "Thanks Hrant, John and Nick for your sage comments. I must admit Nick that
    I've never had a problem with reading Monotype 262. I can't remember whether the
    spacing and kerning were 'out of the box' or Indy'd optical. I can remember making
    a character style for thickened fake small caps which looks predictably dreadful
    onscreen--(& seem a big small on paper).\r\n \r\nThe main thing is that I don't
    really have a free hand. I believe our house style contains Carter's ITC Charter--I
    will find out tomorrow. Using Charter here--perhaps with the Gill for headings
    as mjr suggests--would bend not break the rules. I've been asked to come up with
    some recommendations for revising this report format in the coming months, and
    would like to treat this report as a 'prototype' format for extended reports that
    would be available to others. That therefore gives weight to using a face which
    is already 'in place' and for which we possess a licence--ie. Charter. I don't
    know how well Charter stands up to onscreen use but should imagine such a sturdy
    face should be ok?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-23 21:23:49'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "If you're going to futz with the format, try using two columns as well. The
    line length is much too long in the sample. Letter-sized paper was meant to hold
    one column of double-spaced <em>typewritten</em> text (manuscript format) and
    was never intended to hold a single column of properly typeset text.\r\n\r\nOn
    second thought, you could do something fun like create a single, preferably off-center,
    narrower column of text, and use the margins for headings and/or footnotes. Maybe
    in Gill Sans."
  created: '2012-08-23 23:50:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Letter-sized paper was meant to hold one column of double-spaced typewritten
    text (manuscript format) and was never intended to hold a single column of properly
    typeset text.</em>\r\n\r\nNonsense.\r\nA4 is just a size between A3 and A5."
  created: '2012-08-24 19:00:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, either economy or readability has to suffer when you want one column
    on Letter/A4 paper. It's dumb to have standardized such a size.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-24 20:09:45'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "Well, I've made my case for Charter, just need to wait for the response.
    If I *have* to use GS, then the fallback option is to get hold of the book weight
    (between light and regular), which has small caps and LC numerals at least. Setting
    that in two cols, with careful spacing and kerning should make the best of a bad
    job.  \r\n\r\nLet's see. I'm away for the next couple of weeks and will post some
    pdfs on my return.\r\n\r\nbest,\r\n\r\nGeraint"
  created: '2012-08-25 11:24:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It's dumb to have standardized such a size.</em>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s a practical
    paper and printing size for many kinds of of\uFB01ce and job printing, with many
    kinds of printing/reproduction devices standardized to it; sheet-fed, it may be
    trimmed, and/or folded and collated to other sizes. \r\nBusiness cards may be
    ganged up and printed on card stock this size by small printers.\r\n\r\nI've designed
    many different kinds of commercial document that have been printed on this size
    paper.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s a size used for printing all kinds of documents, not just
    single-column typesetting and letters.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-25 20:55:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Multi-column layouts on A4 format magazines (thus A3 spreads) are pretty common
    in my experience.
  created: '2012-08-25 22:53:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So I guess to me the question becomes: who messed up first?\r\n\r\nSadly
    it's no surprise that the actual purpose of something gets sacrificed for some
    short-sighted expedient.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-26 02:28:29'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> It\u2019s a size used for printing all kinds of documents\r\n\r\nYes indeed,
    and it's a size that fits well into standard file folders, which is an important
    consideration for business documents that need to be filed and saved. Also that
    size works well in standard pocket folders and 3-ring binders.\r\n\r\nBut generally
    I don't like to have one column span the width of letter-sized paper; 2 or 3 columns
    usually work better. Sometimes flipping the page to a horizontal (landscape) orientation
    and binding on the short edge is a nice way to make the letter-sized format look
    a little different.\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-26 02:35:31'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>it's a size that fits well into standard file folders</blockquote>\r\nI
    would have said it\u2019s the other way around\u2026"
  created: '2012-08-26 08:43:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I do suspect that A4 and US 'Letter' size (8 1/2" x 11")  became widely used
    in offices because of the typewriter, and were perhaps chosen because of it. Does
    anyone know the history?
  created: '2012-08-26 23:17:40'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I would have said it\u2019s the other way around\u2026\r\n\r\nYou're right;
    file folders are sized to fit letter-size paper; not the other way around. "
  created: '2012-08-27 00:00:26'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: If A4 or 8.5 x 11 was a reasonable size page for continuous text, it wouldn't
    be impossible to find a novel printed at this size.
  created: '2012-08-27 15:28:45'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: It night have something to do with novels rarely being office supplies.
  created: '2012-08-27 15:54:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Letters were often smaller.\r\nIt depends how much you had to say.\r\nTypewriters
    could type on many sizes, even envelopes and very very long pieces of paper."
  created: '2012-08-27 15:58:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But it's the width that's the problem. And to save on carriage returns people
    would naturally have used the widest paper that would fit in a typewriter. So:
    I wonder how/when such a width was standardized. I'm guessing it had to do with
    what width of object humans are comfortable moving around.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-27 16:29:07'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Here's an article by the American Forest and Paper Association on why 8.5
    x 11 became standard in the U.S.\r\n\r\nhttp://afandpa.org/paper.aspx?id=511\r\n\r\nAccording
    to the article, the origins were in the 1600's when it was a convenient size for
    Dutch paper maker. By the early 1900s there were 2 common sizes in the U.S. \u2014\_8.5
    x 11 and 8.5 x 10.5.  It wasn't until the 1980's that the U.S. government declared
    8.5 x 11 to be the standard size here for government printing."
  created: '2012-08-27 17:11:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From the article:\r\n<blockquote>The average maximum stretch of an experienced
    vatman's arms was 44\". Many molds at that time were around 17\" front to back
    because the laid lines and watermarks had to run from left to right. Sounds big?...well
    to maximize the efficiency of paper making, a sheet this big was made, and then
    quartered, forming four 8.5\" x 11\" pieces.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere you go.
    Just like typefaces suffer because we still want to believe in handwriting, typography
    suffers because of what some guys could lug around.\r\n\r\nAnd:\r\n<blockquote>they
    stuck with the same size so as to keep the hand made paper makers in business.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    money is more important than reading... Some things never change (these days text
    taking a back seat to movin' pitchurz).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-27 17:21:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sheet size has some bearing on trimmed page size, but for your concern, which
    seems to be immersive reading of longer documents, sheets larger than page size
    are generally used, then folded and trimmed.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve often designed booklets
    which were printed on A4/8\xBD x 11\" stock, then folded and trimmed.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    unfair to blame a size that is suitable for all-purpose uses in of\uFB01ces and
    job printing, for being misused in one particular kind of document.\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-28 01:15:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But that one particular kind of document (a single column of text spanning
    a large number of pages) constitutes the lion's share of how Letter/A4 paper is
    used. So maybe 90% of that \"all-purpose use\" is in fact flawed because the paper
    is too wide. Because people wanted to save money by maximally accommodating  laborers'
    physical attributes. Torso width + arm length shouldn't have dictated what our
    reading \"firmware\" gets to resolve.\r\n\r\nFolding? Takes time/effort, so few
    people do it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-28 01:38:52'
- author:
    name: McBain_v1
  body: "This has proven extremely illuminating for me, as I often have to deal with
    large reports (Environmental Statements) from consultants that are <em>always</em>
    set on A4 paper. The range of fonts is quite restricted and limited to those that
    come with the standard installation of Office 2003 / 2007 or 2010.\r\n\r\nMy latest
    challenge is to prepare a handout that will accompany a 45 minute presentation
    on \"Renewable Energy and the Planning System\". I was going to go with the standard
    portrait alignment, 2 columns. The handout will not be a repeat of the presentation,
    rather a complimentary mini-document that will expand on some of the points raised.\r\n\r\nWithout
    wishing to be detrimental to English Heritage (which was the organisation that
    appeared on the pages of those excellent close-up photographs of the Gill Sans
    text), I have to read a lot of that organisation's output and it is turgid stuff!
    Nice to find out that at least someone has an interest in making the content appear
    more readable and presentable."
  created: '2012-08-28 20:38:17'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "With only slightly more effort, you can also fold your A4 paper in half,
    in the style of playbills or chapbooks, to produce a more reader-friendly single-column
    layout.\r\n\r\n[Edit \u2014 I see Nick already mentioned that.]"
  created: '2012-08-28 22:16:34'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  you can also fold your A4 paper in half\r\n\r\nThat can be a good option,
    but for a multipage piece keep in mind that 1) it'll need to be saddle stitched
    (stapled on the fold) and 2) the pages need to be resequenced prior to printing.
    For example, on a 20-page saddle-stitched piece, page 4 and page 17 are printed
    side by side on the same sheet of paper, but appear in the correct sequence after
    it is bound and folded. A good print shop can take can care of this for you, but
    a small copy shop might require you to resequence the pages  yourself before printing."
  created: '2012-08-28 23:20:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u201CBook\u201D faces are best for wide measure, with generous size and
    leading, because they have the \uFB01ne detail that mitigates clumsiness at the
    large size necessary for long lines. However, they look like literature, which
    is so wrong for corporate/bureaucratic reports.\r\n\r\n11 pt. Gills Sans Light
    is a good response to the problem discussed here, and it meets accessibility requirements,
    size-wise, even if the execution in the document shown above isn\u2019t ideal.\r\n\r\nCan
    one font work equally well for a printed document, and the PDF version of it,
    read on screen?\r\n\r\nHow about an app that changes font according to the medium?\r\nThat
    would be a similar trick to automated optical scaling.\r\nAlternatively, just
    have two versions of the document, one for print, one for screen.\r\n\r\nI guess
    this will become less of an issue with higher res screens."
  created: '2012-08-29 00:02:16'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "\"For example, on a 20-page saddle-stitched piece, page 4 and page 17 are
    printed side by side on the same sheet of paper, but appear in the correct sequence
    after it is bound and folded.\"\r\n\r\nIf you're using a real typography program,
    it will do this for you. And even in a word processing program, it's fairly easy
    to get this right just by making a blank mockup, numbering the pages, and then
    pulling it apart to see what pages end up next to each other. The next challenge
    is getting it to print right on a single-sided office printer. Even that just
    takes a bit of trial and error.\r\n\r\nI have seen, and been responsible for,
    plenty of playbills etc that were typed up in Word, imposed manually, and printed
    one side at a time on a desktop printer. I think it's nearly always worth the
    effort."
  created: '2012-08-29 02:26:34'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> If you're using a real typography program, it will do this for you.\r\n\r\nYep,
    some programs will do that.\r\n\r\n> it's fairly easy to get this right just by
    making \r\n> a blank mockup, numbering the pages...\r\n\r\nIt's a straightforward
    process but can be confusing for someone who doesn't do it frequently. \r\n\r\n>
    I think it's nearly always worth the effort.\r\n\r\nI agree complete; just want
    to make sure the original poster realizes there are some extra steps involved."
  created: '2012-08-29 02:56:10'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "By way of a coda to the thread, here is the final report:\r\nhttp://research.english-heritage.org.uk/report/?15107\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, I failed to persuade my bosses to let me try Charter or otherwise
    amend the format. But I did use the book cut of GSL, which has a more sturdy appearance.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to all who contributed,\r\n\r\nGeraint\r\n\r\n                                                                             "
  created: '2012-11-08 09:35:13'
date: '2012-08-22 10:36:47'
node_type: forum
title: A4 report

---
