---
author:
  name: marcox
  picture: 110443
body: "Hi gang,\r\n\r\nI'd love to get your feedback on this typeface. While I've
  been wrangling bezier curves and setting/licensing/ogling type for a couple of decades
  as an art director, this is my first attempt at type design.\r\n\r\nThe spacing
  hasn't been addressed yet -- I wanted to make sure the glyphs were solid before
  tackling that task.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nP.S. -- See below for a link to a PDF,
  for those who care to inspect the shapes more closely.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/first_complete_alphabet_3545.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Interesting mix.\r\n\r\nThe J bowl looks bent out of shape and its terminal
    is sheared crooked."
  created: '2012-08-27 09:24:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Nice.\r\n|S| should be a bit wider on the bottom left and a bit less wide
    on the top left.\r\nTop bowl of |B| could extend a bit to the right.\r\nYou could
    try a non-low-waisted |E|.\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-27 09:30:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool stuff.\r\n\r\nThe \"Q\" needs work; it would probably benefit from a
    tail like in the \"K\" and \"R\" (which you should definitely keep for the sake
    of character, although they do need some modulation).\r\n\r\nBTW you can't really
    make the \"black bodies\" without keeping the spacing in mind - it's all inherently
    iterative. The \"T\" is a great case to consider in this respect: how wide it
    should be will depend very strongly on the overall spacing of the design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-27 18:05:45'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Thanks for the feedback! \r\n\r\n@cerulean: Do you mean that the curve of
    the J could be drawn better, or that shape is fundamentally out of whack?\r\n\r\n@riccardo:
    Good call on the S. It feels like it's leaning to the left a bit, I think. I'll
    play with the B, although I don't want to regularize the font so much that it
    loses its quirkiness/character. \r\n\r\n@hrant: ...which makes me glad you like
    the K/R legs! I tried a few tails on the Q, including some that had more in common
    with the K/R. I wasn't happy with them, but maybe I just need to work harder. "
  created: '2012-08-28 04:35:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "About the \"S\": it's leaning counter-clockwise because the bottom-left terminal
    is too short. BTW you might actually try making the spine <em>uphill</em> - check
    this out:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20111\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-28 05:03:43'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'J: From the vertical to the bottom, the curve is good. Just to the left of
    center, there is a large-scale kink after which the tail turns up more steeply
    and more straightened than I think it should.'
  created: '2012-08-28 05:18:54'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Changes in this round:\r\n\r\n-- Regularized the approach to curves, so O/Q/U
    now are better related to C/G\r\n-- Widened the W\r\n-- Tweaked the B, gave the
    E a centered waist\r\n-- Reworked the curve of the J. I think it's a better fit
    with the rest of the characters.\r\n-- Rotated the S slightly and extended the
    lower left terminal. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_082712_6699.png]"
  created: '2012-08-28 09:13:09'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: There's a new PDF in the original post, too.
  created: '2012-08-28 09:46:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looking good.\r\n\r\nThe \"B\", being so \"busy\", looks a bit dense. The
    \"D\" is suffering from the \"bone effect\"*, where a curve coming off of a straight
    segment looks to be bulging outward; you need to pull in the points and extend
    the BCPs. The \"J\" is too wide, but also I think a shorter top bar is in order
    (but not too short). The \"L\" is too wide; if it does make sense though the \"T\"
    needs to be wider; I have a feeling those two letters should meet half-way. The
    curve of the \"P\" seems droopy. The \"Q\" feels cramped at the bottom. You'll
    also need to modulate the tight joins in the \"K\" and \"R\". The \"X\" and \"Z\"
    feel distorted - they might need to be wider. The \"W\" seems too constructed
    - try lowering the middle.\r\n\r\n* This optical illusion was actually documented
    very well by Peter Karow many years ago.\r\n\r\nBTW, I hope you make a lowercase
    for this! I can picture it being quite cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-28 17:00:12'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Good updates. I would suggest including O/Q alternates, as the old shape
    had its own sort of unexpected harmony with the face.\r\n\r\nThe S still has the
    look of being skewed to the left, but for a different reason: It seems you have
    moved apart the relative horizontal positions of the top and bottom extrema."
  created: '2012-08-28 21:20:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm yeah, looking at it again I think the old forms of the \"O\" and \"Q\"
    made more sense; I'd actually make the old ones primary* and the new ones alts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-28 21:50:17'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "More changes.\r\n\r\n-- Applied the superellipse treatment to B, D, P, R\r\n--
    Narrowed the J\r\n-- Raised the stem of the Y\r\n-- Resurrected and refined an
    early S with curves more in keeping with the direction the type is evolving\r\n--
    Moved the tail of the Q away from the body and made its entry more vertical to
    add a bit more air\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_082812_6474.png]\r\n\r\nThere
    is a certain crispness to the earlier, more geometric characters that I like,
    and love the idea of including them as alternates. Or maybe I'll design a sister
    face with that design conceit.\r\n\r\nNot sure about a lowercase, Hrant. It would
    be a challenge, for sure! I tend to think really wide lowercase letters verge
    on parody most of the time.\r\n\r\nNew PDF in the original post."
  created: '2012-08-29 08:50:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: At this point, you should apply the superellipse treatment to the upper part
    of |K| too!
  created: '2012-08-29 10:16:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Remember what Blaise Pascal once said: Things are at their best in their
    beginning.\r\n\r\nEvolution is great, but make sure you do in fact believe in
    this new direction - don't let it just carry you along. Polish is no replacement
    for character - in fact it can be anathema to it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-29 14:45:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm looking at it some more, and I actually think this is becoming disharmonious...
    Compare things like the \"A\" to things like the \"D\"; with the \"D\" like that
    I'm tempted to recommend trying an \"A\" with a rounded top (like the French used
    to do in the first half of the 20th century - something that's been revived here
    and there recently). Now, if you can make two cuts where one is more rigid and
    the other more fluid*, that would be awesome, especially if each can work for
    emphasis in a body of the other. But if you plan on finishing one first and then
    <em>maybe</em> doing another, I would actually revert.\r\n\r\n* Even uniwidth
    being doable here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-29 16:51:21'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "The latest iteration includes figures, which were a challenge to draw. Beyond
    the tricky construction of some of the characters and the mirrored/not-mirrored
    thing going on with the 6/9, I wanted to inject a little personality, mindful
    of Hrant's comment about polish and character. (And I do plan to put the geometric
    versions in the lowercase slots, so rest easy, HHP.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_090512_1_5060.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_090512_2_5215.png]\r\n\r\nNew
    PDF in the original post."
  created: '2012-09-05 09:06:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those nums are quite charming. The \"3\" is especially attractive - it just
    needs its head shifted to the right a bit. The bottom-left of the spine of the
    \"2\" seems a bit heavy. The \"4\" is too wide. Try a \"5\" with a smaller head.
    The \"6\" seems unhappy - maybe the top-left curve is too square.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-05 18:08:39'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Thanks, Hrant. The 6 & 9 were much more difficult than I expected. And the
    4 has gone through about 10 different angles/widths. :)
  created: '2012-09-05 18:29:59'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Hi gang! Here's the latest iteration. I'd love to have your feedback. Updates
    include:\r\n\r\n-- Wider O/Q and 1\r\n-- Revised S, 3\r\n-- Redrawn 6/9 (Much
    happier, I think. I wasn't thinking of the structure properly before.)\r\n-- \"Narrower\"
    (re-proportioned, really) 4\r\n\r\nI has also got a notion to give the arms of
    the V, W and Y perpendicular endings, rather than shearing them off at the cap
    height. (I tried the same treatment with the top/bottom of the X and the bottom
    of the A. Disaster.) Distinctive, perhaps, but successful? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_091112_1_3445.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_091112_2_4727.png]\r\n\r\nI
    seem to have lost the ability to add a new PDF to the original post."
  created: '2012-09-11 09:41:09'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Here's a PDF incorporating the latest changes:\r\nhttps://www.dropbox.com/s/i5hq18vhen08c93/specimen_091112.pdf"
  created: '2012-09-11 09:42:19'
- author:
    name: Godless
    picture: 120068
  body: "Very classy feel, nice and sleek.\r\n|Z| is too narrow. Also, it seems a
    bit off with the horizontal sharp spikes, if you widen the letter it will become
    even more apparent. Perhaps it will be better to cut those sharp joints?\r\nTake
    a look at how you end the strokes, for instance: top ends of |Y|, |V|, |W| are
    angled, while you've cut them in |X|. I think you should address the |X| and make
    it consistent with the others. While the |A| should have the bottom ends cut since
    it's \"standing\" on the baseline, every other end of stroke in a glyph should
    be angled (like you did in every other glyph apart from |X|).\r\n|B| still looks
    awkward to me. Maybe slide out the top bowl even more. Also, considering |B|,
    the fact that the bowls are so bulgy (what I mean is that they exceed beneath
    the baseline and over the cap height) make it a bit too bubbly. It works on the
    |D| but with two bowls in |B| it makes it too bubbly in my opinion and while the
    rest of the font is classy, |B| adds unnecessary playfulness (so to speak) to
    it.\r\nCongrats on the design!"
  created: '2012-09-11 12:37:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The new \"S\" is trying to be \"proper\" and failing. Maybe go the <em>other</em>
    way with the spine...\r\n\r\nThe \"6\"/\"9\" are indeed much better.\r\n\r\nThe
    new shears on the \"V\", \"W\" and \"Y\" fit nicely with new softer look of the
    face, and I can see how it wouldn't work on the \"X\", making it too much like
    a symbol and not a letter (although I would expect it to work on the \"A\"). Here's
    an idea: make the \"X\" a diagonal with the two other opposing arms <em>curvy</em>.
    You've got a lot of that sort of thing in your design already.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-11 14:30:20'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Thanks for the comments, gents. I tried the angled terminals on the X and,
    as Hrant surmised, it looked too much like a multiplication symbol, and seemed
    to be floating above the baseline. I'm intrigued by Hrant's suggestion of adding
    a curve to the X.\r\n\r\nHrant, you're determined to see an uphill S, aren't you?
    :) If I wanted the S to be \"proper,\" what would you suggest?\r\n\r\nMicha\u0142,
    do you think that if the bottom of the B was straight and parallel to the baseline
    that the curved top would still work? I'll take a look at the Z but am leery of
    chopping off the sharp points, although as the face evolves there's less of the
    sharp neo-Deco construction of early versions.\r\n\r\nI was also considering either
    rounding the corners throughout as the default (somewhere between DIN Next and
    Brandon Grotesque) or offering a rounded version. Thoughts?"
  created: '2012-09-11 17:42:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think to be \"proper\" in the context of this design the spine of the \"S\"
    should appear to go perfectly horizontal, probably for a good stretch. Which means:
    I like the spine of the very first one (the top and bottom of the newer ones are
    better though) just with a bit of clockwise correction.\r\n\r\n\"Z\": One problem
    is the weight distribution - the diagonal looks darker than the horizontals.\r\n\r\nBTW
    I'm starting to not like the \"W\" - it's too close to a perfect zig-zag.\r\n\r\nYou
    can do a rounded version, but I would focus on the flat one more. In fact I might
    even try [a cut with] slightly <em>concave</em> (AKA \"cupped\") terminals, for
    extra definition.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-11 18:04:54'
- author:
    name: Godless
    picture: 120068
  body: "Yes, perhaps making the bottom stroke of |B| straight and parallel to the
    baseline will work. Or just making the curve just a bit flatter and not perfectly
    straight - you know it's often all about tiny details ;)\r\nI get the point about
    the |X|. I think Hrant's idea is the good solution.\r\nI don't think round corners
    will fit the overall spirit of the typeface. Sharp ones will create black spots
    and ruin the contrast (that's often the case with |Z| in such expanded fonts with
    sharp corners). Maybe instead of trying to tame the corners - make the diagonal
    stroke a curve (double turning, an \"s\"-like curve), something like (just a quick
    sketch):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_4723.jpg]"
  created: '2012-09-11 19:02:11'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Thanks again for all the helpful feedback. I present more refinements and
    fiddling:\r\n\r\n-- New X, with some offsetting/trickery to give the arms a less
    steep angle, which seems to help their relationship with the baseline. (I wrestled
    with curves for hours and couldn't produce anything I was happy with.)\r\n\r\n--
    New S, which sets aside Hrant's feedback (for now) in search of the S in my mind's
    eye.\r\n\r\n-- Rounded Z, as suggested.\r\n\r\n-- Flat-bottomed B, with a (very)
    slightly higher waist.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_091512_1_6291.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/specimen_091512_2_4338.png]\r\n\r\nHere's
    the PDF: https://www.dropbox.com/s/gpo673v0u4novsm/specimen_091512.pdf"
  created: '2012-09-16 06:01:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Just saw this. Nice work. The original Z is better. The only character that
    I think really doesn''t work yet is the S. You might try flattening top and bottom
    terminals, something like the very extended Dulles Airport Font, which Christian
    Schwartz digitized: http://www.christianschwartz.com/eero.shtml'
  created: '2012-09-16 15:08:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"X\" is nice of its own, and in an alphabet setting -surrounded by the
    other diagonal letters- it looks fine, but in a real word it stands out too much,
    like a pirate map location - it almost feels like it should be in red. :-)  On
    the other hand you might in fact have arrived at the best compromise.\r\n\r\nThe
    spine of the \"S\" is working fine now - but the letter itself has become a little
    bit butch, probably because the top and bottom are too equal. Try making it slightly
    bottom-heavy, which the \"B\" for example already enjoys. BTW, I realize now that
    the bar of the \"E\" should come up too (or go back to matching the low bar of
    the \"F\").\r\n\r\nI think the curve-bottom \"B\" was better; this new one is
    out of character.\r\n\r\nThe new \"Z\" isn't working for me at all - it's way
    out of character. The old one seems to be less of a compromise than the new \"X\"
    is...\r\n\r\nBTW, something else you could try, just to see if it clicks: inspired
    by the numerals, try making the tops of the \"S\" and \"Z\" narrower.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-16 15:09:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW if you're trying to make the perpendicular shears work for the \"X\",
    the \"A\" shouldn't be excluded. Oh, and same goes for the top arm of the \"K\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-16 21:15:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Another thing you've got going here is the reverse contrast thing on the
    vertical arches. Normally to look the same these have to be thicker than the vertical
    strokes; here they look thinner. You're not doing reverse contrast generally;
    the horizontals seem to be a bit thinner than the verticals otherwise. Is this
    what you want? Maybe you can make it work, but right now the curves, especially
    the outer curves on the tight vertical arches in B and S look awkward. Or maybe
    it's just that the vertical arches look pinched in comparison to the other verticals
    and horizontals. Have you tried going more whole hog on the reverse contrast?
    Or fattening the vertical arches? \r\n\r\nAgain, you've got something interesting
    going here, but I think it can benefit from further resolution. "
  created: '2012-09-16 21:49:56'
- author:
    name: Godless
    picture: 120068
  body: "i think cut ends in all strokes including A, X, V and so on would work better
    overall. Some letters may suffer then but the consistency will be worth it I think.\r\nThe
    new Z doesn't work indeed."
  created: '2012-09-17 09:46:08'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Thanks for all the comments, folks.\r\n\r\nWilliam, are you sure you're looking
    at an undistorted image? There's no reverse contrast at play, at least not intentionally.
    :)"
  created: '2012-09-17 17:01:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yes, I looked at a blow up of the PDF to check if I was seeing right. The
    horizontal with of the top vertical arch on the B is less wide than the vertical
    of the straight stem. To look the same, at this weight, I think it needs to be
    wider, or certainly at least the same.  '
  created: '2012-09-18 04:58:47'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Thanks, William. I appreciate your attention to detail. Another reviewer in
    other quarters made comments after looking at a distorted (squooshed!) preview
    that gave the font the look of bad attempt at Legato-like reverse stress. Just
    wanted to make sure that wasn't what was happening here.
  created: '2012-09-18 15:43:16'
date: '2012-08-27 08:43:25'
files:
- filename: specimen_082612.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/specimen_082612.pdf
- filename: specimen_082712.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/specimen_082712.pdf
- filename: specimen_082812.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/specimen_082812.pdf
- filename: specimen_090512.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/specimen_090512.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Wide, all-caps geometric sans with Deco influences

---
