---
author:
  name: Jean-David
body: "I have often heard that typography is more about the white spaces.\r\nI've
  been practicing in graphic design for around ten years and consider myself a pretty
  decent typographer, certainly not a typography superhero but decent. Yet I still
  have a hard time grasping the \"white spaces\" concept.\r\nContributions anyone?"
comments:
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: http://insideparagraphs.com/
  created: '2012-08-29 11:25:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "In case it\u2019s not clear just from the site that Dave linked above, Cyrus
    Highsmith\u2019s approach in his <em>Inside Paragraphs</em> book is all about
    identifying and understanding the different kinds of white space, their hierarchy,
    and their interactions."
  created: '2012-08-29 13:29:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: The typeface was Gavotte. What a beauty!
  created: '2012-08-29 15:32:35'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Some say that the clinking of the glasses during a toast was meant to involve
    the \"final/fifth sense\"... hearing.\r\nUsing pens, as a first resort, has provided
    me with spacing skills that I would have missed out on otherwise. I find white
    spaces, spacing, etc. to be a lot like the rhythm and meter found in music. I
    find I am more interested, as I age, in the spaces/time between the notes.\r\nMuch
    like one's inability to pull apart a thread of music, without disrupting the flow,
    one must look at the paragraph in toto. One of the first books that gave me an
    \"Aha\" was a little book by Rudo Spemann, it took me a year to see the \"white\"
    but what a revelation it was.\r\nThe book by Cyrus is wonderful and augments what
    I have learned by doing."
  created: '2012-08-29 16:07:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Whitespace is instinctively hard to grasp (probably mostly because we're
    taught to mark the black, because that's what's practical) which is probably why
    it generally gets short shrift, but it's also possible to give it <em>too</em>
    much relevance (perhaps as an over-reaction to the established \"injustice\").
    Because really, the important thing is notan: the unity and relationship of black
    and white. Practically speaking, this means we should ideally design their border,
    not one or the other. Which is easier said than done!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-29 16:41:58'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "\"Music is the space between the notes.\" Claude Debussy\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-08-29 17:41:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u201CDrawing is taking a line for a walk.\u201D \u2014Paul Klee\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that there are three kinds of typeface:\r\n<ol> <li>Thin lines</li>
    <li>Thick lines (both slab and sans)</li><li>Varied line</li> </ol>"
  created: '2012-08-29 17:55:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The only real lines are the invisible ones between black and white; seeing
    black bodies as being made of lines is a limiting illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-29 18:23:41'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Thank you 5star!\r\n\r\nHrant, that is a limiting perspective, you are in
    essence saying the white, as well as the black, do not exist. It takes both to
    create texture... Notan IS that very relationship!"
  created: '2012-08-29 18:24:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Black and white certainly exist, but only because the other does. The most
    important thing in black and white is that \"and\".  :-)\r\n\r\nYou can render
    the black and ignore the white; you can render the black and keep an eye on the
    white; or if you're an idealist you can try to render notan, which can only be
    done through what I've come to call \"liminography\", the drawing of the border.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-29 18:48:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...which can only be done through what I've come to call \"liminography\",
    the drawing of the border.\"\r\n\r\n...and must be done at the bottom of a lake.
    \ Other people may feel free to call liminographic notanocentric border-drawing,
    \"letter drawing\" for short."
  created: '2012-08-29 21:49:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Isolation can indeed be beneficial.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-29 22:02:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The three qualities of positive mark which types may possess are:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hamburg_5853.png]\r\nOne-dimensional:
    line with no thickness, with an equivalence between letter as line and letter
    as counter. \r\nTwo-dimensional: line as area, emphasizing the graphic \uFB02atness
    of the surface upon which the mark rests.\r\nThree-dimensional: complex shapes
    suggesting natural objects with depth, and/or a depth to the substrate.\r\n\r\nCounter
    shapes and spaces between letters have a different relationship with each of these,
    and consequently with the document surface as a whole, of which they are putatively
    a part."
  created: '2012-08-29 23:19:03'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "You're most welcome typerror !\r\n\r\nPerhaps Debussy ( as did Frank Lloyd
    Wright et al) was simply using Lao Tzu's \"Therefore just as we take advantage
    of what is, we should recognize the usefulness of what is not.\", to own his benefit
    ... and there's no shame in that. \r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-30 06:08:31'
- author:
    name: Jean-David
  body: "thanks daverowland \r\nFinally got it and read it. Nice and down to earth,
    exactly the kind of thing I was looking for, and i got my ahah moment...\r\nOn
    my side I'm afraid I was looking in a way to complicated direction..."
  created: '2012-10-11 18:22:16'
- author:
    name: Jean-David
  body: BTW, Anyone knows the paper it's printed on, pretty nice as well
  created: '2012-10-11 18:25:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "White spaces, sometimes known as notan spaces\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-11 19:01:02'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: Playing around with metal or wood type is great for thinking about space as
    a typographer. Suddenly, all your spaces are physical things that have to fit
    together just right.
  created: '2012-10-11 20:58:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But that's now an arbitrary constraints, so cannot lead to optimal design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-11 21:10:52'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: White space out of the realm of type design is the main resource to establish
    the visual hierarchy of graphic elements and rythm. Rythm is not about the sounds
    but the spaces between the sounds. Rythm is a way to work with human perception,
    you set a rythm and an expectation, then you play with it by bending or breaking
    the rithm.
  created: '2012-10-12 01:24:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is no rhythm is text face design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 01:32:22'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>BTW, Anyone knows the paper it's printed on, pretty nice as well</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    first edition of <em>Inside Paragraphs</em> was printed on Glatfelter 60# Spring
    Forge Antique."
  created: '2012-10-12 13:15:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">no rhythm\r\n\r\nThe Fourier transforms on blocks of text show a periodicity
    in text faces, bands of black and white. Another way of saying this is that in
    a the vertical strokes in a word tend to fall near vertical lines a set distance
    apart, namely half the width of the n.\r\n\r\n As H\xE9ctor says, deviation from
    the exact periodicity is part of what we 'read'. It is analogous to the regular
    beat in music, and the varied rhythm over the beat. When the typeface doesn't
    have that periodicity is like a dancer who 'loses the beat,' and can't dance to
    the music. \r\n\r\nOne feature of good handling of white space is to get the widths
    of the characters and the side bearings in a font to relate to each other so there
    is that strong, but not totally regular periodicity. I think failing on rhythm,
    harmonious widths and sidebearings, is the most common failing in type design.
    \r\n\r\nBecause our eyes do not move continuously across the page, but in jumps,
    saccades, the analogy with music is not complete, but the periodicity, with regular
    beat and varied rhythm is analogous. "
  created: '2012-10-12 13:37:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Better than deviating from an illusion is ignoring it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 14:38:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, the periodicity, moving horizontally across the word or lines of text,
    that Bill is referring to in his post above, is what I have been calling \u2018narrow
    phase alignment.\u2019 Perfect phase alignment is like a grating, and gives rise
    to a picket-fence effect in type. In a sense, the periodicity <em>is</em> an illusion,
    but the narrow phase alignment around a periodic mean is a fact, documentable
    with Fourier Transforms. \r\n\r\nI think of narrow phase alignment as relating
    to the black.\r\n\r\nThe whites to me are a bit of a different story. I think
    good notan requires that the whites inside and between letters are all \u201Cin
    synch.\u201D What that means specifically in terms of individual letters is difficult
    to describe, because, for example the o and the bowls of d / p / q / b have a
    circular expressedness, while n / h / u have a predominantly oblong or rectangular
    expressedness, and the a / e / s / z have a distrubed expressedness. So there
    must be a deviation from perfect equivalence to approximate a kind of optical
    cohesion. \r\n\r\nThe narrow phase alignment in the blacks and the optical cohesion
    in the whites hold the word together in gestalt terms as an internally well-composed
    visual unit.\r\n\r\nYou might insist there is no rhythm in text face design, but
    if you deny that the narrow phase alignment exists you are just wrong, and if
    you deny that it is important for easy word-recognition, you are telling me you
    are out of touch with what happens in the visual cortex during a fixation. In
    reading alphanumerical symbols, the visual system uses spatially frequency channels
    tuned to statistical regularities in the stimulus.\r\n\r\nThis has yet to be shown
    empirically, but I think it will eventually become evident to researchers looking
    at reading, that both the narrow phase alignment of the blacks and the rhythmic
    cohesion of the whites are critical for the rapid automatic visual word-form resolution
    that underlies reading."
  created: '2012-10-13 13:37:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What kills this whole thing is that there is no pattern in saccade length,
    because the content determines that.\r\n\r\nThere <em>is</em> a rhythm in reading
    consecutive lines (because lines don't vary in length, within a composition) but
    that's beyond the spectrum of letterforms.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-13 15:14:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026there is no pattern in saccade length\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThat doesn\u2019t
    matter, because one takes measurements not from how far the muscles of the orbit
    move, but on the surface of the retina, in units of rod."
  created: '2012-10-13 17:26:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No matter where you measure it, there's no pattern of flow (AKA rhythm) at
    the letterform level.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-13 22:28:56'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "I love this quote:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/White-Space_Sm_4566.gif]"
  created: '2012-10-13 22:47:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "To follow up on 5star's Debussy quotation - something more recent:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/06/writing-with-miles-davis/\">Writing
    With Miles Davis</a>.\r\n\r\nDoes it apply to type?  Of course."
  created: '2012-10-13 23:30:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Musical composition is display type; text type is the sound of the forest.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-13 23:33:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nothing ''kills this whole thing'' because what Peter wrote about narrow
    phase alignment is just true. The eye can only see about 8 letters clearly at
    text sizes, and over that range you do have the periodicity. It is very clear
    to  me that the brain throws some kind of matrix over the text to interpret it.
    You can see this from the d<em>i</em><em>f</em>f<em>i</em>cu<em>l</em>t<em>y</em>
    of reading mixed upright and italic text. If you ''accordion'' type it is also
    much harder to read. '
  created: '2012-10-14 02:06:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, only 3-4 letters (although ignoring the parafovea is ignoring reading).
    Still, there is no flow, so there is no rhythm. If you're talking about pattern,
    please use \"pattern\"; the term \"rhythm\" reinforces the Chirography Myth, a
    romantic illusion. That's my only point [here].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-14 02:15:50'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "\"What kills this whole thing is that there is no pattern in saccade length,
    because the content determines that.\"\r\n\r\nYes, but in order for your eyes
    to make effective saccade jumps it has to figure out the rythm of the text and
    predict the location of the next relevant chunk of information based on it."
  created: '2012-10-14 15:52:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Saccadic landing sites are guided by the information provided in parafoveal
    preview as well as the syntactic status and semantic content of what has been
    found in prior fixational events. In parafoveal preview, the alteration of the
    larger word spaces with the smaller rhythmically linked inter-letter and intra-letter
    spaces plays a facilitory role.
  created: '2012-10-14 16:20:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fixation points are determined based on content. What kind of content has
    rhythm?\r\n\r\nContent doesn't even have <em>pattern</em>. If it did so would
    saccades; but they don't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-14 16:25:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This alternation has no pattern, hence no rhythm.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong,
    I do realize that some fonts do try to enforce rhythm. But that makes them inferior
    because -just like chirography- it's an arbitrary constraint.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-14 16:28:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_movement_in_language_reading|according
    to this,]] the sharp vision is 4-5 letters, since there is a smooth, though steep,
    curve of fall-off in acuity, I was including a flanking character or two adding
    7-8 characters total identifiable characters. But it is indeed small. I don't
    think the parafovea can give you content, but only relative word length, as Peter
    notes. This is, however an important clue, at least in English. \r\n\r\nYes, the
    periodicity is not strictly speaking rhythm, because the horizontal axis is not
    time, but distance. However, the pictures are otherwise the same, so using the
    term rhythm is not misleading, so long as you understand that reading is by saccades
    and parallel processing. \r\n\r\nThe question of whether than hand in motion has
    anything to do with good or bad type design is totally another question. In fact,
    I think type, with its repetition of identical characters, forced a greater care
    with uniformity of periodicity, and a resulting higher readability of type vs
    handwriting. \r\n\r\nSo I and almost everyone else will, I think, ignore the Hrant
    language police and still use 'rhythm' to refer to the very important issue of
    periodicity in type design. \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-10-14 16:36:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Over, and over, and over, again...\r\n\r\nIf the parafovea didn't deliver
    content, saccades could never be 15+ letters long. And no, those are not always
    followed by regressions.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the periodicity is not strictly speaking
    rhythm</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhen -as you say- it's distance and not time, it's
    not rhythm at all, it's just <em>pattern</em>.\r\n\r\nIt's not police work, it's
    teaching. But anybody can appease their succubi -and father figures- any way they
    like.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-14 17:17:16'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WhiteSpace_4763.png]'
  created: '2012-10-14 23:44:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Commodore lives.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-14 23:53:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Pursuing narrow phase alignment is a <em>functional</em> constraint.
  created: '2012-10-15 00:43:19'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: hmmm, or the Timex Sinclair..
  created: '2012-10-15 01:50:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, according to [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_movements_in_reading#Eye_movement_in_reading|this\u2014same
    wikipedia link as above]], the average saccade is 7-9 characters, though it can
    be up to 20. This average is consistent with the parafovea not delivering much
    semantic information to the brain. \r\n\r\nThe issues here are the same whether
    you call it periodicity or rhythm. Getting the character widths and sidebearings
    to have the verticals hit around the regular 'frequency' of half the n is important.
    \   \r\n\r\nI don't have any father figures in type, unless it was my late Uncle
    Ben Lieberman, or William Caslon. Neither never opined on these issues that I
    know of."
  created: '2012-10-15 01:56:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>This average is consistent with the parafovea not delivering
    much semantic information to the brain.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat is this, a presidential
    debate spin room? Excuse me, but what kind of peon is going to fall for that sort
    of contrived logic? \"The average length of a human stride is 2.6 feet, therefore
    humans never have a good reason to jump\".\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Getting the character
    widths and sidebearings to have the verticals hit around the regular 'frequency'
    of half the n is important.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDisagree.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Timex
    Sinclair</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich came five years after my first computer, the
    Commodore PET.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:PET_2001_Series-IMG_1724.JPG\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 05:01:27'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Really? I guess I was only really aware of the 64.
  created: '2012-10-15 05:12:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "By the way, I think it is plausible that robust deep-parafoveal <em>predictions</em>
    about word-identity <em>are</em> selectively made on the basis of semantic context
    and lexical expectation, relative to the new ensemble of summary statistics encountered
    in a specific parafoveal preview event. But in these cases accurate sense following
    requires confirmation and confirmation requires fixation on the word, rather than
    skipping. If efficient processing of the blacks and whites in parallel is the
    issue here, the relevance of phase alignment in the blacks, and rhythmic cohesion
    in the whites is again key)\r\n\r\nThe frequency of this depend on the \u201Cgiven\u201D
    versus \u201Cnew\u201D (to the text \u2013 not the reader) status of the words
    in the text at hand.\r\n\r\nProviding informative summary statistics (hpp: boumas)
    is a design challenge here, and the relationship of providing informative summary
    statistics to meeting the constraints governing efficient processing during a
    fixation is what needs investigation. Probably there are countervailing pressures
    here and the solution is a balancing act."
  created: '2012-10-15 16:37:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "re: the parafovea /  [not] <em>delivering</em> much <em>semantic information
    to the brain</em>.\r\n\r\nThe parafovea delivers <em>visual information</em> to
    the visual cortex. The deeper you go into the parafovea, that coarser the resolution
    capabilities of the parafovea are. Critical details of the role-unit components
    of letter forms (bowl / stem / counter) get lost or scrambled. Beyond a certain
    point, and up to about 15 character spaces, only \u201Censemble statistics\u201D
    or \u201Csummary statistics\u201D, that are sufficient for the guidance of eye
    movements, but insufficient for unambiguous word-recognition are available. Still,
    in the near parafovea the resolution capabilities are often sufficient for the
    visual system to predict and confirm correctly the identity of short contextually
    expected words like \u2018the\u2019 and \u2018in\u2019 and \u2018at\u2019 without
    having to attend to them specifically. Except in [to clarify: with the exception
    of] these cases, fixational attention is required for identification to occur.
    Also, in the near parafoveal, just beyond the reach of foveal vision, there can
    be what is called \u201Ceccentric enhancement\u201D of what strictly speaking
    falls in the near parafovea just outside the actual fovea. This has the effect
    of enlarging the \u201Cuncrowded span\u201D to the point where 5 to 8 letter words
    are fully accessible in a single fixation to parallel processing.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 17:53:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: I think my description is more informative about what happens in reading,
    and provides a richer, more accurate description of what kinds of reading-side
    constraints and challenges the type-designer and typographer work under.
  created: '2012-10-15 17:58:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>insufficient for unambiguous word-recognition</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    brain is heuristic (because that's more efficient in the long term). Unambiguity
    is for mindless machines.\r\n\r\nThe decreasing acuity of the parafovea (plus
    the fact that saccades <em>do</em> go way beyond the fovea) is exactly why [multi-letter]
    boumas exist; Kevin is probably correct that you don't need boumas in the fovea,
    and that's probably why they don't show up in his fovea-centric field testing.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>This
    has the effect of enlarging the \u201Cuncrowded span\u201D to the point where
    5 to 8 letter words are fully accessible in a single fixation to parallel processing.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd
    evidence of even longer saccades* clearly extends that range, because absolute
    certainty is not the point; if the bouma is distinctive enough, and if the context
    is helpful enough, you can read it very deep into the parafovea. But there's no
    point referring to that as an \"extended fovea\" - just call it what it is: the
    parafovea delivering content.\r\n\r\n* Exceptions are what let us see inside.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 18:10:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think your description is indeed richer, but it's missing a key component
    (one that makes obvious intuitive sense to me). But you're certainly \"right\"
    that most type designers remain enthralled by the illusion of rhythm...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 18:13:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "One of my starting points for immersion in the scientific literature on crowding
    and on eye movements was your intuitions about boumas and the parafovea. My summary
    is the result of my testing your intuitions against the literature.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think I've ever said most type designers remain enthralled by the illusion of
    rhythm. I say that the orientation of type designers to a kind of proportionate
    construction and fitting that puts in place a narrow, but not absolute phase alignment
    in the black, and a rhythmic cohesion of the whites \u2014 the subject of this
    forum \u2014 inside the word is entirely apt."
  created: '2012-10-15 19:19:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, how many times do we have to go round this: <em>No matter where you
    measure it, there's no pattern of flow (AKA rhythm) at the letterform level.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    are the only person in any of these discussions who equates rhythm with flow.
    You persist in speaking about rhythm as if we were talking about it as an aspect
    of reading, when it is obvious that Bill and Peter and I and others are talking
    about is rhythm <em>as an aspect of what is read,</em> i.e. not of the processing
    but of what is processed. Your comment about saccade length is, therefore, a red
    herring, because we're not talking about rhythm of saccades but of what is perceived
    during fixations. Peter is simply correct: narrow phase alignment of blacks is
    an observable and measurable feature of the Latin writing system in general and
    Latin text types in particular. You can debate what role this plays in reading
    and readability -- and even suggest that deviating from it might improve readability,
    although I think there are good reasons to doubt this --, but calling it an illusion
    is silly."
  created: '2012-10-15 20:29:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please use \"pattern\", because using \"rhythm\" damages understanding. Ask
    people who aren't as deeply into this as us (which is, like, almost everybody)
    and you will see.\r\n\r\nFlow <em>is</em> integral to \"rhythm\", and there is
    no flow, only an illusion of it (which is why when saccades were discovered people
    were surprised).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 21:16:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I do think that letter design which creates good word images (= 'boumas')
    is very significant in the fovea, and affects readability. Peter confirms the
    figure of 5-8 letters in the fovea. If the average saccade is around that length,
    as the wikipedia article says, then this is consistent with much reading being
    done with the fovea, and only 'skipping' of less important words is enabled by
    the parafovea, in combination with the brain's understanding of the meaning of
    the previous text. That's why I said 'semantic'; I doubt that well into the parafovea,
    where you can't tell 'and' from 'mad', that you get actual meaning. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-10-15 21:35:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>less important words</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe more experience
    you have with context and bouma resolution, and the more distinctive the context
    and the bouma, the more more words become \"less important\", allowing you to
    overcome more lack of clarity.\r\n\r\nIt's easier to tell apart \"help\" & \"holy\"
    than \"and\" & \"mad\" deeper into the parafovea. And/so is \"and\" not important?
    Sometimes -like when it might be an \"or\"- it's very important. This business
    of \"function words\" being ignored is a damaging over-simplification; nothing
    is ignored, and anything can be resolved upto a point in the parafovea when the
    context and bouma are good enough; this is what long saccades are about, and this
    is where the under-appreciation of the parafovea falls apart.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 22:00:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Bill] \u201CPeter confirms the figure of 5-8 letters in the fovea.\u201D\r\n\r\nActually
    I didn\u2019t. \r\n\r\nI said \u201CAlso, in the near parafoveal, just beyond
    the reach of foveal vision, there can be what is called \u201Ceccentric enhancement\u201D
    of what strictly speaking falls in the near parafovea just outside the actual
    fovea. This has the effect of enlarging the \u201Cuncrowded span\u201D to the
    point where 5 to 8 letter words are fully accessible in a single fixation to parallel
    processing.\u201D\r\n\r\nAs explained in the wikipedia lemma on eye movements
    in reading, only four to five letters are seen with 100% acuity. The uncrowded
    window of object recognition stretches a bit beyond what foveal vision yields
    if the spacing between letters is wider than the critical spacing for crowding.\r\n\r\nAlso
    in the wikipedia lemma: \u201CThe distance the eye moves in each saccade (or short
    rapid movement) is between 1 and 20 characters with the average being 7\u20139
    characters.\u201D The cited source for this is Karl Rayner and colleagues, but
    the average of 7-9 characters sound a bit low to me and might be somewhat misleading,
    because saccade length depends on the visio-spatial composition of the linguistic
    information in parafoveal vision. If there is a short function word like \u2018is\u2019
    or \u2018the\u2019 followed by a longer substance word, I think the saccade is
    considerably longer than when a key noun is followed by an important verb, or
    an important adjective is followed by the noun it modifies.\r\n\r\nAnd by the
    way, I didn\u2019t say function words are ignored!"
  created: '2012-10-15 22:16:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] \u201CIt's easier to tell apart \"help\" & \"holy\" than \"and\"
    & \"mad\" deeper into the parafovea.\u201D\r\n\r\nThat may well be, but I think
    there is quite a bit of work done by Gordon Legge and colleagues that shows that
    when foveal vision deteriorates to the point that is is largely disabled, and
    a person must use parafoveal vision to read, reading is slower, becomes laborious,
    far less automatic, and the visual span becomes reduced in size to fewer characters
    being processed at one time."
  created: '2012-10-15 22:52:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm curious, how much slower?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 23:30:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: No, Hrant, I am not going to stop using words in the way that the majority
    of people discussing type use them just to accommodate your idiosyncratic insistence.
    'Flow' isn't intrinsic to rhythm -- especially not to visual rhythm --, and replacing
    rhythm with 'pattern' doesn't doesn't improve understanding at all, because it
    immediately prompts the question 'What kind of pattern?' To which the answer is
    'A rhythmic pattern'. What is intrinsic to all notions of rhythm is <em>regular
    recurrence,</em> and that is what one sees in the narrows phase alignment of stems
    in Latin text.
  created: '2012-10-15 23:37:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] \u201C[\u2026] how much slower?\u201D\r\n\r\n[from a paper by Legge
    and colleagues at http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.76.9876&rep=rep1&type=pdf\r\n\u201CChung
    et al. (1998) found a 4.4-fold reduction in maximum reading speed at 15\xB0 eccentricity
    compared with central vision.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe findings of the paper \u201Care
    consistent with the following interpretation. When text is presented in peripheral
    vision, the visual span gets narrower; the reader recognizes fewer letters per
    fixation. As a consequence, the reader saccades through the text in smaller steps
    with a corresponding reduction in reading speed. In effect, the capacity of normal
    vision to process several letters in parallel deteriorates in peripheral vision.
    According to this interpretation, a fundamental limit to reading in peripheral
    vision is the reduction in the size of the visual span. This may explain the reading
    deficits commonly observed in people with central scotomas.\u201D\r\n\r\nYou can
    also try and sort through the links that come up when you google \u201Creading
    without a fovea.\u201D\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-16 01:06:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for the correction Peter. But isn't the 'fovea' not sharply defined
    physiologically? So really the issue is how many characters can be recognized.
    The slowing of reading to less than a quarter of normal at 15+ degrees is really
    interesting. Actually I'm surprised you can be that fast with the middle 15% blotted
    out. According to [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fovea_centralis|this article
    on the Fovea]], the fovea only covers 2 degrees. If we can see enough in the flanking
    6 or 7 degrees to read even a quarter the speed, then I think that Hrant must
    be right that quite a bit of information is got up to the 20 letters of the biggest
    saccade. If the fovea is 2 degrees, and gets you sharply 4-5 letters, then an
    additional 6 degrees would span an additional 9 or 10 letters. So the those letters
    may not be so clear, if you can read with them, even slowly\u2014and probably
    more quickly than at 15 degrees\u2014that's very significant. I'm getting more
    converted to Hrant's view on the importance of the parafovea from this information.
    Peter, is there something I'm not getting in your view, or do you agree?\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 06:59:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Legge and Pelli have shown the the issue is how wide the \u201Cuncrowded
    span\u201D is. Pelli claims this varies from individual to individual, with a
    range from 5 to 9 characters, and that isolating sections of text from the background
    text using an eye-tracker can maximize this.\r\n\r\nMost eye movement scientists
    have concluded that the information in the parafovea to the right side of the
    fixated word, when it contains new words, sets up the following saccade and provides
    some visual information about the upcoming words which goes beyond just the word\u2019s
    length and boundaries, but, because the uptake there is sub-attentive, doesn't
    lead to actual full visual word form resolution to the point at which word identification
    can occur. \r\n\r\nThe information in this area is subject to heavy crowding,
    and provides what is termed a \u201Cparafoveal preview benefit.\u201D The parafoveal
    preview benefit speeds up next-word recognition, but doesn\u2019t replace a fixation
    to it. The effect is similar to priming.\r\n\r\nWhat the visual information is
    that is provided in parafoveal preview is unclear and controversial. Perceptual
    psychophysicists, who emphasize crowding use the term \u201Censemble statistics\u201D
    or \u201Csummary statistics\u201D to describe it, and have used scrambled letter
    \u2018mongrels\u2019 to help us visualize it. The people who study eye movement
    say some letter-level information is gathered. Herman Bouma used terms like circular
    or rectangular expressedness, and sidedness at the stoke and letter level to describe
    what can be gathered from the near parafovea.\r\n\r\nI think \u201Censemble statistics\u201D
    or \u201Csummary statistics\u201D are terms that suggest the information is averaged
    across a word, which I don\u2019t think is accurate. I've suggested to Pelli that
    a term like \u201Cjumble statistics\u201D be used.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 14:11:37'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I said, \u201CI've suggested [\u2026] that a term like \u201Cjumble statistics\u201D
    be used.\u201D\r\n\r\nA term like \u201Cbouma statistics\u201D could serve as
    well."
  created: '2012-10-17 14:15:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>But isn't the 'fovea' not sharply defined physiologically?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    think it's best to base definitions on observable things, and to me the only useful
    definition of the fovea is derived from acuity, which is known to fall steeply
    beyond a certain point (preventing decipherment of individual letters). Speaking
    of the fovea as something more only serves to obscure the powerful role of decipherment
    beyond individual letters (i.e. reading boumas deep into the parafovea).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>So
    really the issue is how many characters can be recognized.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHow
    many <em>boumas</em> (which can be single letters in the fovea, and full words
    quite a distance from the fovea).\r\n\r\nPeter, just like concluding that the
    parafovea is totally useless because individual letters are too blurry, there
    must be something wrong with the mainstream interpretation of crowding. The proof
    is in the pudding: saccades can be long enough to blow the model you describe
    out of the water.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 16:56:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, I'm confused. I just started reading the Legge et al paper and they say
    that Rayner and Bertera (1979) used an eye tracking method to mask letters. \"When
    the mask covered the seven central letters, reading speed was very low, about
    12 words/min. When the mask covered 11 letters, reading was essentially impossible.\"\r\n\r\nSo
    I don't understand what is happening at the 15 degree angle. I guess I will have
    to read it further. But from this quoted information, I don't see how anything
    beyond 11 letters can have much visual information. Legge et al put the \"visual
    span\" 10 letters. Are the 4-5 letters in the fovea? are the flanking letters,
    2-3 on either side in the parafovea? I can't study this right now, but now I'm
    swinging back against Hrant's view, which is, I take it, there is semantic information
    in the 11-20 letter area."
  created: '2012-10-17 20:00:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is information (about text, what else) everywhere. Specifically between
    4 to 20+ letter positions beyond the fovea, clearly (otherwise long saccades would
    as a rule end up skipping text).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 20:25:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Average saccade distance is 7-9 characters. How frequent are those long saccades
    (20 characters)? And what do they tend to encompass in terms of text (short, common,
    contextually obvious words that are skipped?)?\r\n\r\nI've experimented with wilfully
    inhibiting saccades, trying to maintain a fixation and consciously examine my
    parafoveal perception of text. And it is <em>bloody difficult.</em> We want to
    read and we are trained by habit to read, and since saccades are unconscious actions
    they are hard to inhibit. So unless I was trying this with an eye tracker to determine
    whether I was successful in maintaining a fixation and not unconsciously flicking
    ahead, I don't think I could say whether perception of content in the parafovea
    was actual or the result of a sneaky saccade. I do know that I always seem to
    have better perception of content to the right of my fixation than to the left,
    which is why I suspect that I am unconsciously shifting my fixation despite my
    efforts to maintain it in one place. I also know that the more successful I seem
    to be in maintaining a fixation, the less I can perceive any meaningful content
    in the parafovea: crowding causes the letters to blur into each other, and I reckon
    one would need radically distinctive shapes in order to resolve parafovea boumas
    into unambiguous cues: writing systems don't provide such shapes -- could they
    even? given the number of linguistic entities that they need to represent --,
    and hence what I perceive in the parafovea often might be resolved to any number
    of possible letter sequences that look roughly the same in crowding."
  created: '2012-10-17 21:54:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I haven't seen a corpus of long saccades to study the saccaded text (that
    would be very interesting). But the simple fact that they exist is the key thing.\r\n\r\nI've
    tried conscious parafoveal reading myself, and you're right about the difficulty!
    :-)  But I do use the parafovea consciously sometimes, mostly for its superior
    (to the fovea) ability to detect motion: like sometimes when I'm driving out of
    a \"blind\" area I'll look straight ahead instead of continuously flicking my
    head left-right, ready to hit the brakes if I detect movement in the parafovea.
    Also, I have on occasion caught myself using the parafovea after the fact, for
    example when playing tennis; I have to think professional tennis players have
    moved this ability fully into real-time consciousness.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I do
    know that I always seem to have better perception of content to the right of my
    fixation than to the left, which is why I suspect that I am unconsciously shifting
    my fixation</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut fixation location data does not support this
    perception; there is no \"forward stutter\" in fixation points before a big leap.
    So ignoring the left side is probably coming from our brain knowing it doesn't
    need it, and the effort is better spent on the right side.\r\n\r\nAs an aside
    concerning directionality: Derrick de Kerckhove has co-edited a book (\"The Alphabet
    And The Brain: The Lateralization Of Writing\") which included an article by himself
    where he claims that leftward writing systems have inferior readability because
    the left halves of our retinas (which receive the right half of the visual field)
    are closer to the parts of the brain that read.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>crowding causes
    the letters to blur into each other</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut the information is
    still there - it can't disappear, so here's what I think: it's entirely possible
    there's a hidden-from-consciousness mechanism to read extremely blurry boumas,
    something we've never been consciously trained to do. This \"library\" would be
    built up in our minds without us even realizing.\r\n\r\nBTW, about the relative
    speed of fovea-less reading: how much time were people given to adapt to it? Since
    it's such a strange experience I think people could speed up a good deal with
    practice. Consider how long it takes for children to transition from letterwise
    reading to immersive reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 22:30:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>sometimes when I'm driving out of a \"blind\" area I'll look straight
    ahead instead of continuously flicking my head left-right, ready to hit the brakes
    if I detect movement in the parafovea. Also, I have on occasion caught myself
    using the parafovea after the fact, for example when playing tennis</em>\r\n\r\nMovement
    is, as your tennis experience shows, a whole other ball game. We are attuned to
    movement in the parafovea, for all sorts of good evolutionary purposes. And yes,
    there is evidence that some sports players are as good as they are in part because
    of exceptional peripheral vision (I recall a news story about Gretsky being tested
    in this regard).\r\n\r\nBut text in the parafovea is static and crowded. So the
    fact that we do one kind of thing very well in the parafovea and peripheral vision
    -- sense movement --, is not an indicator that we do something else well.\r\n\r\n<em>But
    the information is still there - it can't disappear</em>\r\n\r\nLet me make a
    scholastic distinction between antecedent information and effective information.
    We're surrounded all the time by an immense amount of antecedent information,
    i.e. information that we might cognitively process, consciously or unconsciously,
    with the appropriate sense abilities. But we don't always have the appropriate
    sense abilities. For example, I have about an average sense of smell for a human
    being, which determines the amount of effective olfactory information I am able
    to glean from the vast amount of antecedent smell information that surrounds me.
    My dog has vastly better sense abilities when it comes to smell, though, both
    in terms of her physiological ability to smell more and her apparent ability to
    process that information.\r\n\r\nThe antecedent information available in the text
    in our parafovea vision does not necessarily make the transition into effective
    information, except in the way that researchers have already been able to demonstrate:
    next-fixation cueing. Now it seems to me that this demonstrated use of parafoveal
    vision to cue the next fixation provides a likely clue as to what happens in long
    saccades, which is why my question about what kind of text those saccades typically
    cover is an important one. If such saccades tend to include multiple short and
    common words, then it seems very likely to me that in cueing the next fixation
    the brain is already guessing or assuming what those words are, and that process
    can be more easily explained, I think, by linguistic context than by a putative
    'hidden-from-consciousness mechanism to read extremely blurry boumas' (cf Brother
    William's razor).\r\n\r\nNow, to give your idea its due, I am willing to accept
    that <em>if</em> particular short words happen to have highly distinctive blurry
    boumas that are not easily confusable with other blurry boumas, then that is information
    that could contribute to guessing the content and hence prompting a longer saccade.
    I also think that frequency of potentially confusable boumas being resolved to
    particular short words would likely be made use of in such guessing, i.e. if a
    particular blurry bouma turns out to be the word 'and' much more often than not,
    then that would encourage the reader to assume that when cueing a long saccade.\r\n\r\nThe
    nature of crowding seems to me to strongly militate against recognition of parafoveal
    boumas as parts of longer words, which is why I am anticipating that longer saccades
    are made up of shorter words."
  created: '2012-10-18 00:02:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I pretty much agree with all your points.\r\n\r\nWhere I'm taking a further
    -highly tentative- leap is in suggesting that crowding might be delivering shapes
    that we haven't learned to decipher consciously (because we don't have to) but
    can be mapped to words (and letter clusters, although less deeply into the parafovea)
    by our brains nonetheless. Like a foreign language that only our unconscious can
    understand.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-18 04:18:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just thought of something. You know how when you look at something then
    look away the image persists on your retina for a fraction of a second and you
    actually see a \"reverse\" of it? I wonder if we can leverage that to speed up
    reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-19 16:33:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The current view is that, during a fixation on a foveated word (while rapid
    automatic visual word-form resolution is occurring relative to that foveated word)
    parafoveal vision is covertly or sub-attentively gathering coarse-grained information
    on the next word to be fixated, and the claim is this facilitates the processing
    of the next word to be fixated. I think this idea is an elegant one, makes excellent
    intuitive sense, and is well-supported by the data on the size of the uncrowded
    span, and <em>average</em> saccade length.\r\n\r\nMy impression Hrant, is that
    you under-estimate the demonstrable extent of the uncrowded span and focus on
    maximum saccade length, rather than the mean, or the most common saccade length
    \u2014 treating the maximum as the norm or what can become the norm \u2014 to
    come up with your ideas. I would want to know how regressions and corrective saccades
    factor into this estimate as well. Do they normally occur more frequently when
    saccades exceed the mean or most common length? What is the spread? How many saccades
    exceed the mean or most frequent length. How many undershoot it. Is there a cluster
    effect around the mean or most common saccade length?\r\n\r\nIf the type designer
    is to design for recognizing shapes that we haven't learned to decipher consciously
    (because we don't have to) but can be mapped to words, wouldn't he or she need
    to know what the shapes delivered by crowding, that constitute the min\u2019s
    representation of words look like? "
  created: '2012-10-19 23:27:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sure the maximum is not the norm (by definition) and I doubt if it can
    ever become the norm*; but to me it is the direction to head. It shows -or at
    least hints at- what our reading mechanism is capable of, and I hope we can make
    fonts that leverage this mechanism to its fullest. My own reasons for trying to
    understand reading involve virtually no academic curiosity - I want to help, on
    the ground.\r\n\r\n* Unless we can implement a dynamic display system where letters
    are enlarged in proportion to their distance from the fixation point, with saccades
    becoming \"virtual\"; we just need to figure out a way to ideally trigger a refresh
    (and as needed a regression) of the text displayed.\r\n\r\nIn terms of regressions
    (which can only exist as a result of bad guesswork - any model worth its salt
    needs to convincingly account for guesswork) I would certainly expect that one
    would be more likely the longer the previous saccade, all else -most notably the
    experience of the reader- being equal.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>wouldn't he or she need
    to know what the shapes delivered by crowding, that constitute the min\u2019s
    representation of words look like?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIdeally yes.\r\nBut even
    lacking that information it should be possible to improve things based simply
    on the principle of bouma divergence.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nYou've made me consider
    a line of questioning that might yield something that could force me to change
    my model:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>you under-estimate the demonstrable extent of the
    uncrowded span</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere's a well-understood sharp fall in retinal
    acuity (which is where I demarcate fovea/parafovea). Is there a sharp rise in
    crowding a notable distance from that fall in acuity? And how do you define \"too
    much crowding\" - is it a matter of not being able to decipher individual letters,
    or words, and given how much time? And what about context?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-20 02:12:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] \u201CIs there a sharp rise in crowding a notable distance from that
    fall in acuity? And how do you define \"too much crowding\" - is it a matter of
    not being able to decipher individual letters, or words, and given how much time?
    And what about context?\u201D\r\n\r\nThere is an extensive literature on crowding.
    \r\nA good place to start is here: \r\nhttp://www.journalofvision.org/content/11/5/13.full.pdf+html\r\nor
    here:\r\nhttp://psych.nyu.edu/pelli/pubs/pelli2008uncrowded-complete.pdf\r\nYou
    need to look at the literature yourself to determine if it is of use to you.\r\n\r\nThe
    increase in crowding with eccentricity is addressed by \u201CBouma\u2019s Law.\u201D
    Sometimes identifying a letter flanked by other letters is the task. Less frequently,
    words in lines of text are used. The subject is generally given unlimited time.
    Most often the effect of sentence context is not considered. Various factors are
    shown to provide a release from crowding."
  created: '2012-10-20 03:57:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks.\r\n\r\nWhen I get the Samsung Galaxy Note II hopefully I'll have
    more time to read stuff, like I used to. I just wish the damn thing couldn't receive
    calls.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-20 05:35:55'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>When I get the Samsung Galaxy Note II hopefully I'll have more
    time to read stuff, like I used to. I just wish the damn thing couldn't receive
    calls.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou can stop that from happening."
  created: '2012-10-20 08:47:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, if your going to help people on the ground with an understanding of
    reading that can stand up, you need to take the time to deal with the empirical
    studies. The eye movement research hasn\u2019t really taken full account of the
    crowding findings yet (which come from perceptual psychophysics), and crowding
    studies haven\u2019t so far addressed the additional complications involved in
    assessing the parafoveal preview benefit (a concept that comes from the eye movement
    in reading studies). \r\n\r\nThe parafoveal crowding and ensemble statistics findings
    come from tests using sidelong attention and involve no time constraints. Parafoveal
    pre-processing happens sub-attentively, and has a one-quarter second or so time
    constraint. Grouping and configural effects also modulate crowding, so an adequate
    theory of parafoveal pre-processing that can address issues in type design will
    need to take all this into account."
  created: '2012-10-20 13:56:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>you need to take the time to deal with the empirical studies.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAgreed,
    and that is something I did do for a number of years in the beginning. Time -especially
    in sufficiently large contiguous blocks- has been getting tighter and tighter.
    On the other hand, virtually nothing anybody has said in the past few years has
    made me sufficiently doubt the model that I built up in those beginning years.\r\n\r\nKarl,
    when you don't have a cellphone people think you're mildly eccentric; when you
    have a phone but don't let them call you they think you hate them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-20 15:11:45'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I don't have a great interest in bouma and parafoval recognition and these
    types of things because I regard myself as a display face maker, not a text face
    maker.  However all this talk has got me curious.  It seems to me when discussing
    the shapes of words that are not in the center of your vision, that mostly what
    counts is the outside of the letters, after all, thats what would make up a word
    shape--whether or not the outside of the letters were curved or straight, if they
    had any ascenders or descenders, etc.\r\n\r\nI'd be very interested to see how
    a face might do that only has the outside of the letters intact, and with insides
    that are all messed up and random.  I think the only problem may be with the lower
    case e and a, i think seeing those crossbars in the middle of the letter is very
    important.\r\n\r\nIn a test of purely parafoval reading, it would be interesting
    to see how a face constructed like the one below would fair.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ParaFoval_4197.jpg]"
  created: '2012-10-20 17:17:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those sketches are cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-20 17:40:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] \u201Cvirtually nothing anybody has said in the past few years has
    made me sufficiently doubt the model that I built up in those beginning years.\u201D\r\n\r\nYour
    model is based on the notion that most of the visual part of reading \u2014 what
    I like to call rapid automatic visual word-form resolution \u2014 happens <em>away</em>
    from the fixation point, and the word the fixation and visual attention is on,
    i.e., in parafoveal vision, away from where direct visual attention is attentionally
    allocated. This is monumentally counter-intuitive. Virtually everything I've read
    supports the widely-held notion that while visual attention and word recognition
    is occurring at the fixated word, some kind of ancilliary gathering of information
    is occurring relative to the next word to be fixated, which benefits the processing
    of that subsequent word once it is fixated. The bulk of rapid automatic visual
    word-form resolution happens inside the uncrowded span."
  created: '2012-10-21 16:43:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Previously you -correctly- cautioned me against relying too much on intuition
    (and I would note here that even the very existence of saccades is counter-intuitive).
    However I would actually say that virtually everything you've read (and I've read)
    sadly suffers from a total oblivion of intuition, which isn't some divine gift
    - it comes from experience with anecdotal evidence. Everybody rightly points this
    out all the time: the people doing typographic testing have virtually zero typographic
    experience.\r\n\r\n\"When intuition is joined to exact research it speeds the
    progress of exact research.\"\r\n\u2013 Paul Klee\r\n\r\nAll those studies crumble
    in credibility when you try to factor in the simple existence of very long saccades.
    So why are all these scientists failing? I've opined this before: their tests
    suck at getting people truly immersed. When you're not immersed, yes, the fovea
    is king. But when you <em>are</em> immersed, the fovea is nothing that special.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-21 18:45:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, long saccades do not contradict what Peter has written, that I can
    see. He says that there is enough information in the parafovea for the brain to
    guess that it can skip small words and still get the meaning of the sentence.
    And if the skip was wrong, the eye can jump back\u2014which it does pretty often.
    \r\n\r\nYou say that everything changes with 'immersion'. What speed is immersion,
    and what evidence is there of a shift in the function of the fovea? Note that
    the study Peter linked earlier says that when the central 11 letters are fuzzed
    out in a 'moving window', people can't read at all. If the parafovea in the 11-20
    letter region to the right (in l-r language alphabets) were so important, I don't
    see why this should be so. Can you explain it under your theory?    "
  created: '2012-10-21 19:00:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Since we only read to the right of a fixation* when a saccade is long enough**
    to overshoot words that the fovea (even the \"extended\" one you guys refer to)
    cannot capture, then... Hey, if you want to speak of the fovea as being 20 characters
    big, go for it.  :-)\r\n\r\n* Hmmm, I'm starting to wonder about this... Should
    I?\r\n\r\n** Without triggering a subsequent fixation.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What
    speed is immersion</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOf course it varies by individual (thanks
    to experience, which is gained more slowly than one might think*) but towards
    the top end it should be at least 500 wpm (if memory serves - I admit to having
    become a bit rusty on the numbers). However I actually don't believe immersion
    is black-and-white: after maybe around age 10 virtually everybody knows how to
    read immersively at least a little bit; but what might be called \"deep immersion\"
    requires pretty good conditions. Conditions that I feel are not being reproduced
    in labs.\r\n\r\n* For example it's been shown that grad students read faster than
    undergrads.\r\n\r\nParafoveal boumas aren't more important than foveal ones, but
    they're not less important either. The key thing it: <em>somehow</em> they're
    being used; not all the time, but certainly when Distinctiveness\xD7Context\xF7Blur
    is high enough. I think we might essentially be disagreeing on how incapacitating
    Blur (low fidelity + crowding) is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-21 19:24:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "According to [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reading_%28activity%29#Reading_rate|this
    summary]] usual reading rates with full comprehension are around 150 wpm. 500
    is clearly 'skimming' with reduced comprehension. If that is 'immersion', then
    I think we're not talking about the same thing. Skimming is a very valuable skill
    for research, but it is a matter of sampling text to get a general idea.  \r\n\r\nAre
    you saying we only read to the right of the center of a fixation? The research
    on the uncrowded window I thought says that we are able to identify 4-5 letters
    to the left and right of the center of the fixation. The info beyond the 10 letters
    may be only used to the right, but that is another matter. \r\n\r\nAlso you haven't
    answered the question of why we can't read at all when the middle 11 letters of
    the fixation are blurred out. Until you answer that question, I don't see how
    your view of the overwhelming importance of the 10-20 characters to the right
    has any credibility. \r\n "
  created: '2012-10-21 19:45:19'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant (re: \u201Cparafoveal boumas\u201D)] \u2014 \u201C[\u2026] <em>somehow</em>
    they\u2019re being used [\u2026]\u201D\r\n\r\nYes. I think the <em>information</em>
    your so-called \u201Cparafoveal boumas\u201D provide 1) contributes directly to
    sense-following by supporting skipping and 2) contributes indirectly to fixation
    times by providing a preview benefit that facilitates a) strategic saccade planning
    and b) the uptake of visual information at the next fixation. \r\n\r\nThe<em>
    information</em>, which is sometimes referred to with the terms \u201Censemble
    statistics\u201D or \u201Csummary statistics\u201D is known to be coarse grained,
    and presumed to be locally differentiated (i.e., not just about the envelope structure
    of the word). It is also about as resolvable in actual \u201Cword-form resolution\u201D
    terms as the \u201Cmetamers of moby dick\u201D we dickered about some time ago
    are. See: http://typophile.com/node/92761"
  created: '2012-10-22 17:48:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, what you call 'parafoveal boumas' seem to me so unresolvable in terms
    of word-recognition, due to crowding, as to not really constitute boumas at all.
    What we can perceive in the parafovea, thanks to the existence of word spaces
    that break up the crowded string, is the presence and length of words, and that
    is sufficient information to provide the processing benefits that Peter describes.
    From the content of the text and from experience we can reliably anticipate many
    shorter words and hence skip them, which accounts for longer saccades. In order
    for the existence of long saccades to be as important as you claim it to be, such
    saccades would need to regularly include longer words, uncommon words, and not
    be frequently followed by reversions. If these are not the case, then long saccades
    are accounted for by skipping and guessing, without requiring any parafoveal bouma
    recognition.
  created: '2012-10-23 21:41:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I imagine letter recognition in the parafovea as being like a game of battleships.\r\nOr
    the blind man feeling different parts of the elephant and trying to infer what
    the whole animal is.\r\nIn other words, you don\u2019t perceive a blurry image
    of a whole letter or word, but you get enough on/off data points to be able to
    infer a general range of possibilities.\r\nYes, you got a hit!\u2014but is it
    a sub or an aircraft carrier?"
  created: '2012-10-23 22:00:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...Hrant, how many times do we have to go round this...\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    last time , Hrant got to ride the red horsey with the white mane, and you and
    Peter got ride the white horsies with the blue mane and red mane's respectively.
    This time, Hrant wants to ride the black horsey with the blue mane, and you and
    Peter have to ride the Appaloosa and the Holstein. And I think it's Bill's turn
    to control the throttle. See ya,  Nick and I are gonna have a beer with the stranger
    on a train."
  created: '2012-10-23 23:01:47'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Once again, Hrant Hijacks.\r\n\r\nWhen will you all learn to just stop.\r\n\r\nImagine
    the time you would have saved if you just said no, or stop, or not now.\r\n\r\nThen
    again, maybe you all like wasting your time conversing with the insane."
  created: '2012-10-24 02:01:26'
date: '2012-08-29 10:12:30'
node_type: forum
title: White spaces

---
