---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "Profiled by Ellen Shapiro on:\r\nhttp://imprint.printmag.com/typography/turnip-patch-meets-type-technology/#more-404691\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Turnip/\r\n\r\nDoes
  the systematic violation of (expansionist) chirographic logic underlying the deliberated
  dissociation between Turnip\u2019s inner and outer shapes put the typeface in a
  class with Legato, and does it have the same benefits in terms of readability?\r\n\r\nPeter"
comments:
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "It's more beautiful than Legato, for sure.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/turnip_veggies1_3856.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: tatianalancing-spammer
    body: "I think the article very original ideas.<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Jacken</strong></a> One of President Barack Obama's latest campaign themes is
      trust \u2014 that he can be trusted and Republican nominee Mitt Romney can't.
      Thanks to his own words, we know that Obama can be trusted to put ideology ahead
      of commonsense economic goals to put people back to work.<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Outlet</strong></a> In an interview with the editorial board of the Des Moines
      Register, Obama was asked if he regretted his push to enact health-care overhaul
      legislation when he had huge Democratic majorities in Congress instead of emphasizing
      measures to fix the economy. &quot;Absolutely not,&quot; responded the president.
      <a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn Schneezauber</strong></a>
      Obama's remark to the Register editorial board \u2014 which later endorsed Romney,
      the first time the paper has backed a GOP nominee in four decades \u2014 shouldn't
      have come as a surprise. During the 2008 campaign,<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Store</strong></a> he didn't shrink from proclaiming an ideological goal even
      when the facts argued against it. During a debate, Obama said he advocated increasing
      the capital gains tax even when told lower rates produce more revenues by encouraging
      investments in the economy. Obama said higher taxes were a matter of fairness.
      Obama wanted the pie split up fairly even if his policy meant a smaller pie.<a
      href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/wellensteyn-jacken-herren-c-1.html\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Jacken Herren</strong></a> A smaller pie is exactly what the American family
      has ended up with after four years of his policies. Household income has fallen,
      and most of that came during the Obama recovery, the weakest in modern history.
      Economic growth,<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/wellensteyn-jacken-damen-c-2.html\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Jacken Damen</strong></a> as measured by Gross Domestic Product, has slowed
      and some experts worry the recovery may be stalling and headed back toward recession
      in 2013. So the issue of trust is a simple one. <a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/wellensteyn-jacken-weste-c-3.html\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Weste</strong></a> The record shows Obama can be trusted to deliver more of
      the same ideological agenda that has kept too many people out of work and eroded
      the American dream."
    created: '2012-10-30 14:34:30'
  created: '2012-09-06 00:10:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Text is not about beautiful letters.\r\n\r\nBravo David.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-06 01:44:23'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Of course the obvious problem with the comparison is that one is a serif and
    one is a sans.
  created: '2012-09-06 02:33:29'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: Is that a problem? The question is about whether the innovative detachment
    of the two sides of the stroke is beneficial compared to more traditional serifed
    types (in Turnip's case) or more traditional sans (in Legato's case). It's the
    same question. Though sans are traditionally less influenced by writing to begin
    with.
  created: '2012-09-06 02:36:11'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: interesting question
  created: '2012-09-06 02:55:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'I think this is just a failure of terminology rehashed over and over again,
    that everything without serifs is one big general class of type. '
  created: '2012-09-06 02:58:33'
- author:
    name: David Jonathan Ross
  body: "For what it's worth, here is what was going through my head while drawing
    Turnip:\r\n\r\nI think of Bookman and the late-19th/early-20th century \"oldstyle
    antiques\" as <em>faux</em> oldstyles: the serifs/terminals are kind of calligraphic-ish,
    the structure not so much. The inner and outer shapes do virtually the same thing;
    the diagonal stress is gone, and with it, the dynamism that you get from the calligraphy-inspired
    thick/thin relationship.  \r\n\r\nSeeing how Bookman feels static feels in text,
    I figured that a sense of movement within the letter shapes, especially horizontal
    movement, has value in a block of text. Not sure if it's about making a text more
    readable, but maybe more compelling? I wanted that kind of movement in Turnip,
    like what happens naturally to shapes rooted in calligraphy, but in a more blatant,
    non-calligraphic sort of way. So I tried pitting inside against outside in hope
    that the tension would make each character look like it was unable to sit still.\r\n\r\nI
    wrote a little more about the drawing on my personal site, if it's relevant: http://djr.com/typefaces/turnip/#story"
  created: '2012-09-07 05:01:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The screen rendering is great too.\r\n\r\nBTW, with the Regular and Book
    being so close in weight, did you consider making them uniwidth?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-07 05:13:48'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: David, what do you think about the idea that the letters are to some extent
    constructed of oval outer shapes and more squarish counter shapes?  I mean, did
    it just kind of happen organically during construction, or was it part of what
    you were trying to do from the outset?
  created: '2012-09-07 19:25:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Ryan \u2014 Did you read the backstory that DJR linked to? I think that basically
    answers your question:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I accentuated the tension between round,
    doughy outer forms and crisp, angular inner counters.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
    if you interpret \u201Cround, doughy\" as more or less <em>oval</em> and \u201Ccrisp,
    angular\u201D as <em>squarish</em>, that is."
  children:
  - author:
      name: inkexit
    body: those 2 arent the same thing. Tension can exist in many other formats other
      than circle outside square inside.  But if someone sets out with the idea beforehand,
      'and now I will draw something with roundish outer shapes and squarish counters.'...
    created: '2012-09-07 20:08:06'
  created: '2012-09-07 19:58:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not mentioned in that piece however is the ghost of Dwiggins, swirling all
    around us...\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ohbendy/5943111278/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-07 20:03:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: What is interesting to me about this design, with regard to Peter's original
    question, is the way in which the results of David's approach differ optically
    from those of Evert's in Legato. This is most obvious at larger sizes, where edge
    perception overrides shape perception, but it leads me to think that there is
    probably a mid-to-large size range at which Legato is more readable than Pumpkin.
    The difference I perceive is that at larger sizes the counters of Pumpkin start
    to pop out, especially in the heavier weights, whereas in Legato the relationship
    of inner and outer shapes aims for a less dynamic tension and maintains a strong
    sense of black shape structure even as size and weight increase. As David says,
    the effect of his approach is to 'make each character look like it was unable
    to sit still'. Is that a good goal in terms of readability? I don't know. It is
    roughly the opposite of my own approach, which is to create a sense of stability,
    but then I am often dealing with writing systems that have built-in instability
    of various kinds.
  created: '2012-09-07 20:23:41'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I think comparison to other new-calligraphic types, such as, Legato, and
    dare I say it--Fenland, are just.  That is not meant to demean Turnip in any way
    whatsoever. But there seems to be a new school of calligraphic-geometric being
    formed. It's the new black.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-07 20:46:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, you were making pumpkin pie right before that post, weren't you...
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nSeriously: Great observations - and David's \"unable to sit still\"
    does make me... fidgety! But at least it's a worthy challenge to the status quo.\r\n\r\nRyan,
    the new school (still a rag-tag bunch of guerrillas) is actually specifically
    non-calligraphic. It's not the new black yet, but things are looking much better
    than they did just a few years ago.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-07 21:17:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I have recently encountered one classic example of square inside round...
    [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/ad-lib/|AdLib]].
  created: '2012-09-08 00:50:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Er, yeah. Turnip, not pumpkin. Could have been worse. Could have been rutabaga. '
  created: '2012-09-08 02:25:17'
- author:
    name: David Jonathan Ross
  body: "<blockquote>did you consider making them uniwidth?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    suppose I was thinking about Book and Regular as being less like true grades (that
    solve a technical problem) and more a stylistic choice. But that's post-rationalization,
    really...it's a good question, and if a user ever needed compatible width versions,
    I would be happy to create them.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Ryan: But if someone sets
    out with the idea beforehand, 'and now I will draw something with roundish outer
    shapes and squarish counters.'...</blockquote>\r\n\r\nInner/outer play wasn't
    a real factor in the original drawings...it crept in as I was looking for ways
    to make the design pop a little more in text.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Hrant: Not mentioned
    in that piece however is the ghost of Dwiggins, swirling all around us...</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDefinitely...he
    was all about this sort of un-calligraphic dynamism.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>John:
    Is that a good goal in terms of readability? I don't know. It is roughly the opposite
    of my own approach, which is to create a sense of stability, but then I am often
    dealing with writing systems that have built-in instability of various kinds.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good question. :-)\r\n\r\nI guess that's sort of the thesis of this typeface,
    that there's something interesting in running contrary to common traits of text
    face design: balance, stability, evenness. \r\n"
  created: '2012-09-08 02:56:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The strange thing about Dwiggins though is that -as far as I know- he never
    explicitly verbalized his strong un-calligraphic leanings - in fact he often extolled
    the pen! Or maybe his thoughts have been \"filtered for publication\"... But probably
    it's a case of a designer with incredible inventive intuition - so strong that
    his formal intellect could not keep up to explain what was going on. In fact some
    of Dwiggins's formal statements can only be described as ludicrous, such as the
    view that extenders are only for show, with no positive role to play in readability!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>running
    contrary to common traits of text face design: balance, stability, evenness.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich
    <em>must</em> make sense at least on some level, since information can only arise
    from contrast.\r\n\r\nDo you remember that slide from my Mexico City talk (that
    you requested) where I showed two opposite \"poles\"? One thing I was trying to
    say there was exactly that the textbook Modernist desires for things like balance,
    stability and evenness belong towards the display end of the axis, not the text
    end (although neither extreme of the axis can exist in a pure state).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-08 05:10:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Which must make sense at least on some level, since information
    can only arise from contrast.</em>\r\n\r\nContrast, in the sense of differentiation,
    isn't at odds with balance, stability or, even, evenness in design. You don't
    need a building to be unbalanced and off-kilter in order to tell where the door
    is and how many windows there are.\r\n\r\nWith regard to differentiation: in my
    'Same Difference' lecture at St Brides a few years ago, I looked at kinds of sameness
    that occur in writing systems and the job of differentiation that the type designer
    must do, and at the kinds of difference that occur and the job of 'making same'
    that the type designer must do. On the whole, I reckon we are given more difference
    than sameness to work with, so the bulk of our work is in creating kinds of sameness
    that do not decrease the necessary sameness but that produce visual harmony and
    stable relationships between signs."
  created: '2012-09-08 05:44:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>The strange thing about Dwiggins though is that -as far as I
    know- he never explicitly verbalized his strong un-calligraphic leanings - in
    fact he often extolled the pen!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWAD essentially thought of
    what he was doing as \u201Ccalligraphic.\u201D Doesn\u2019t necessarily fit with
    most of today\u2019s practitioner\u2019s definitions. But that\u2019s how he thought
    about it."
  created: '2012-09-08 12:19:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<blockquote>In fact some of Dwiggins's formal statements can only be described
    as ludicrous, such as the view that extenders are only for show, with no positive
    role to play in readability!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think that Dwiggins
    was the only designer of his time who might have thought like this. Victor Hammer,
    for instance, believed that ascenders and descenders <em>slowed down reading.</em>
    \ He preferred Latin to any of the modern European languages he was familiar with,
    as it features much less of them in text. Not that Dwiggins and Hammer worked
    under similar circumstances, but \u2026 there you go.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-08 13:38:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, my contention is that Dwiggins's <em>thinking</em> was out of touch
    with his <em>doing</em>.\r\n\r\nDan, even though Hammer's belief is more extreme
    than Dwiggings's, to me it's not as shocking because we don't hold up Hammer's
    work as aiding readability while we do do that for the M-formula. I think Hammer
    created amazing display type, while the most amazing thing about Dwiggins was
    his un-calligraphic output.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-08 14:40:21'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<blockquote>I think Hammer created amazing display type.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, all of Hammer\u2019s typefaces are text typefaces, as far as he was concerned
    (except perhaps Andromaque). He certainly used them for book printing \u2026 quite
    extensively so. Hammer\u2019s work is certainly calligraphic though \u2026 he
    was in the Edward-Johnston-line. Our association with his work as being in the
    \u201Cdisplay\u201D arena is probably because of his stylistic unorthodoxy, and
    also because of the terribly poor photo and digital versions of American Uncial.
    This, though, has nothing to do with David\u2019s awesome typeface! Sorry for
    the tangent.\r\n\r\nI brought Hammer up because I think that our current ideas
    around reading might only have come about 70 some-odd years ago. Before these
    ideas got to designers and foundries, other things might have been going on. I
    suspect that there were plenty more type designers who thought like Dwiggins or
    Hammer might have."
  created: '2012-09-08 15:38:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know Hammer believed his fonts were for text, but most people now don't
    (and I believe our aggregate views do become more refined over time - although
    dips are unavoidable).\r\n\r\nWe do know that designers follow trends, and I think
    this applies not just to style but to thought as well. Morison convinced Dwiggins
    and JvK to go slanted-Roman*, but then they changed their minds. And as you say
    I'm sure the anti-extender stance of Dwiggins and Hammer were not isolated views.
    But is it true that extenders have only gotten respect in the past few decades?
    I think there were periods in the past where people realized they're important
    functionally.\r\n\r\n* Although not the right way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-08 16:52:29'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>the new school (still a rag-tag bunch of guerrillas) is actually specifically
    non-calligraphic.</em>\r\n\r\nBut it sooo is though.  I remember Nick Shinn talking
    about how Fenlad couldn't be constructed with a nib pen by only one hand, but
    needed both left and right or something like that.  And I know the Tankard specifically
    states he was trying to think in a way that could never been done with a nib pen,
    or something like that, but to me he failed utterly in that. You can't tell me
    those curves (curves, not shapes) dont come directly from classical penmanship.
    \ For instance, fill in the counter out of the |o|, and look only at the outside
    shape, that doesn't look calligraphic? Or something like that."
  created: '2012-09-08 17:26:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>You can't tell me those curves (curves, not shapes) dont come
    directly from classical penmanship.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nUh, that's what I've been
    doing, sorry. Or are you talking about the <em>outlines</em> being chirographic?
    Virtually nobody does that. Read this though: http://typophile.com/node/31095\r\n\r\nYou
    can create any shape with a pen, if you contort it enough. But does it make sense
    to go to the grocery store crawling on your back, naked?\r\n\r\nYou do have to
    take into account third-party interpretation though, and (as with Dwiggins) sometimes
    even the designer can't fully wrap his head around the results. Like how some
    people -who should know better- insist on seeing chirography in Legato. To me
    that's just ridiculous apologism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-08 17:43:39'
- author:
    name: David Jonathan Ross
  body: "<blockquote>Hrant: Do you remember that slide from my Mexico City talk (that
    you requested) where I showed two opposite \"poles\"?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI do!
    One of the dichotomies that most spoke to me was \"expression\" (for display)
    vs \"service\" (for text).  Related to the original post on readability, I struggled
    with how Turnip should fall on this spectrum...namely how prevalent the inner/outer
    play should be.\r\n\r\n John's right that the inner/outer play can take over at
    mid-to-large sizes, but I was mainly interested in text size (print and screen),
    where the effect is more subtle but there's still a little kick to it (M-formula
    sort of stuff, I suppose).\r\n\r\nI can't speak for the goals of the other designers
    mentioned, and I can't say that this \"kick\" improves readability across the
    board. But for Turnip, I had a certain kind of use in mind. When you write with
    dialect, for example, it's not about directly conveying information but about
    cultivating a reading experience. Similarly, I consider the \"expressive\" aspects
    of Turnip to be part of \"services\" rendered. "
  created: '2012-09-09 13:43:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>Kent, my contention is that Dwiggins's <em>thinking</em> was
    out of touch with his <em>doing</em>.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, I\u2019m well aware
    of this. And my contention is that <em>your</em> thinking about Dwiggins\u2019s
    doing is out of touch with <em>his</em> thinking about his doing. You have conflated
    your \u201Cchirography\u201D with his \u201Ccalligraphy.\u201D Dwiggins was not
    Johnstonian.\r\n\r\nWe all see the past through our own contemporary lenses. What
    inspires you about Dwiggins\u2019s experimental work may or may not be what inspired
    Dwiggins. Which is fine: we take our inspirations where we find them. But our
    interpretations do not in turn define the objects of our inspiration nor the motivations
    of their originators.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>because we don't hold up Hammer's work
    as aiding readability while we do do that for the M-formula.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAgain,
    to be clear, you may hold up [your interpretation of] the M-formula as \u201Caiding
    readability;\u201D but if you study the original formulation carefully, you will
    find that that was never Dwiggins\u2019s objective, certainly not in any sense
    that you like to employ that phrase.\r\n\r\nYou may see potential in the results
    of his explorations that inform your own particular thinking and that you wish
    to build upon, which is certainly a valid prerogative; just be mindful that your
    aims are not necessarily the same as Dwiggins\u2019s pursuits.\r\n\r\nIf his results
    coincide with your thinking about Readability, it may be just that: coincidence."
  created: '2012-09-09 15:10:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I must be expressing myself poorly, because I actually agree with almost
    everything you just wrote. I'm not nearly as informed about Dwiggins as you are,
    but I do understand that his M-formula idea does not directly support my ideas
    on readability (and I'm certainly not trying to co-opt Dwiggins's prestige).\r\n\r\nI
    guess what I'm saying is that Dwiggins -even though I think he was a genius, and
    I never use that word lightly- didn't realize all the ways that his ideas could
    be useful (which is normal for anybody); and one of those ways strikes some contemporary
    designers (and not just me BTW) as more significant than anything he seems to
    have <em>explicitly</em> thought about: the breaking of chirography to benefit
    functionality. Was that dumb luck, or killer instincts? We can't know - but faith
    makes me prefer the latter. And if he didn't even realize he was being un-chirographic*,
    oh well - at least he gave us a wonderful gift.\r\n\r\n* Or un-calligraphic, which
    in spirit at least is quite close.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-09 18:29:38'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "I'm not a font designer, and so have a different starting point here. I looked
    at the Font Bureau's specimen (printed out) and I think the Regular size, shown
    with bold and italic, looks like a very readable text font for extended text.
    If you agree with this, please tell me why it is so. To my eye, at this 9 point
    size, the square insides are not noticeable. It just looks like a nice low contrast
    font. So is this a nice font because of the square insides, even though I can't
    see them? Or is it because of the big (wide) counters? Or some other reason. This
    is the way my brain works. Look at some type that works and figure out why it
    does. So... why?\r\n\r\nOff topic #1: I have ranted in the past that italics need
    to have the same darkness as the roman. http://typophile.com/node/77718 And Turnip's
    italics look good to me.\r\n\r\nOff topic #2: Type specimens should show the text
    fonts at the size they will probably be used! Maybe the designer thinks they look
    best for long text at size 9 with pretty tight leading, but I am skeptical that
    a novel or textbook would have them this small. I think the designer should be
    forthright and say that, for instance, the font looks best at 10.5/13.1 and the
    specimen should be set this way.  I shouldn't have to look at small text and try
    to guess how it will look at a usable size. And I would prefer unjustified text
    so I don't have to guess at how it looks straight out of the can.\r\n\r\nIf you
    like Turnip, you might want to take a look at Coline: http://www.emilie-rigaud.com/index.php?/project/coline/\r\n\r\nEdit:
    What do you think about the capital letters like T and F not letting the lowercase
    letters slide in close? I wish the specimen had shown a few of these. My guess
    is that it  looks just fine, but I wish I could see it."
  created: '2012-09-10 05:23:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>even though I can't see them?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere are different
    kinds of seeing. Rest assured that your inner mind can see things that are \"subvisible\";
    and everything matters.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>italics need to have the same darkness
    as the roman.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt depends. Not all Italics can/should have
    a strong slant, and/but they cannot fail to work for emphasis in a body of Roman
    (even when just an \"I\" is emphasized, which is one reason so-called \"upright
    Italics\" can't really work) so sometimes you might elect to lighten the color.
    Or make it look smaller on the body (rarely done). Or both. Or any combination
    of the various factors above...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I would prefer unjustified
    text</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIndeed - there's no gauging the spacing otherwise.\r\n\r\nColine
    BTW is quite interesting - I hadn't noticed it before.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, something
    that's bugging me:\r\nIn the screen version of Turnip they reduced the characteristic
    tension between the insides and the outsides. Does this mean the screen impedes
    un-chirographic design? Or maybe it's that we're not treating the screen right?
    I'm not sure.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-10 05:54:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Who is "they"?
  created: '2012-09-10 11:19:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>I must be expressing myself poorly, because I actually agree
    with almost everything you just wrote.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOkay, yes Hrant \u2014
    from your restatement, it sounds like we\u2019re on the same page. My apologies
    if I misread or over-reacted earlier. \r\n\r\n<blockquote>I shouldn't have to
    look at small text and try to guess how it will look at a usable size. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nJ.
    Tillman \u2014 Yes, this is an unfortunate side-effect of having certain standardized
    showings.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>And I would prefer unjustified text </blockquote>\r\n<blockquote><blockquote>Indeed
    - there's no gauging the spacing otherwise.</blockquote></blockquote>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    let you in on a little secret: FB text specimens are carefully composed so that
    the justified text is <em>very</em> close to the natural word spacing of the font.
    Shown here is the justified Turnip setting (left), compared with the same in a
    flush-left setting (right):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Turnip_text_6259.png]"
  created: '2012-09-10 13:38:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Who is \"they\"?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nUhhh... yeah.  :-)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>FB
    text specimens are carefully composed so that the justified text is very close
    to the natural word spacing of the font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGood to know!\r\n(Sounds
    like how I write my emails - and used to write my Typophile posts.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-10 14:29:16'
- author:
    name: David Jonathan Ross
  body: "DB: I think \"they\" is me. :-)\r\n\r\nHrant: The RE styles are quite different,
    but I don't remember consciously reducing the inner/outer tension. What you are
    seeing may be a factor of weight: in Turnip (print and screen), the inner/outer
    tension gets louder as the design gets heavier and there is more allowable variation
    in thickness. TurnipRE-Regular is lighter than Turnip-Regular and even Turnip-Book.
    \r\n\r\nIt also may be affected by how you are seeing the RE fonts rendered. A
    preview of this and other Reading Edge fonts across various renderings is here:
    http://www.fontbureau.com/ReadingEdge/\r\n\r\nJ Tillman: I agree that the Font
    Bureau PDF specimen shows the font on the smaller and tighter end of Turnip's
    range. If you are interested, I would be happy to send you supplemental materials.
    Since it appears I can't attach PDFs to this thread, please get in touch: http://djr.com/about/contact\r\n\r\nI'm
    not the expert at making these specimens, but I do know that care is taken to
    show the font without a lot of primping, so you are seeing default spacing (or
    something very close to it), despite the justified setting. [Edit: I started responding,
    and then got breakfast and missed Kent's post. See his explanation above.]"
  created: '2012-09-10 14:43:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm basing my comment on the notes on the \"n\"s here:\r\nhttp://imprint.printmag.com/wp-content/uploads/turnip_comparison.02.png\r\nIt
    does say \"accentuate[d]\" and \"preserve\", but since the original (or at least
    the one that generates pertinent discussions like this thread) is the print version
    I think instead those really mean \"preserve\" and \"dilute\" respectively...
    Like how the \"Classic\" model is old and slow, the \"Faster\" and \"Better\"
    settings could be called \"Crappier\" and \"Slower\", and \"widescreen\" often
    ends up meaning \"shortscreen\"...  :-/\r\n\r\nAbout that \"they\" again: I'm
    glad to hear you did the mods yourself* but you're not the [only] one who nailed
    down the parameters for good onscreen rendering. In fact in a way even Microsoft
    and Apple could be seen as part of that \"they\".\r\n\r\n* Not because I wouldn't
    trust third-parties (especially at FB that's a feature, not a bug) but because
    it means you know how to do it.\r\n\r\nBreakfast? Well OK, if you must. But remember,
    \"Lunch is for wimps.\"  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-10 16:59:32'
- author:
    name: David Jonathan Ross
  body: "<blockquote>I'm basing my comment on the notes on the \"n\"s here:</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAhhh...yeah
    my shorthand here is confusing. What I should have said is this: <em>\"Describing
    the design in general, Turnip's inner-outer tension is accentuated.\"</em> ...and
    then: <em>\"Here, in the Reading Edge version, the accentuated inner-outer tension
    is preserved (i.e. not diluted), even as other things have changed.\"</em> \r\n\r\nI
    think the inner/outer tension feels about right when viewed in the context of
    other weights (with adjustments made to the RE font's scale and spacing, to compare).\r\n
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/turnipREcompare_5632.02.png]\r\n\r\n<blockquote>
    About that \"they\" again: I'm glad to hear you did the mods yourself* but you're
    not the [only] one who nailed down the parameters for good onscreen rendering.
    In fact in a way even Microsoft and Apple could be seen as part of that \"they\".</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    get what you're saying. I do think those parameters are still being nailed...it's
    not like there's a consensus or list of rules, though certainly there are attributes
    in common.\r\n\r\nAt least with Turnip RE, this was less a list of modifications
    and more of a reimagining of the design for a different medium. Being familiar
    with Verdana and the earlier members of the Reading Edge series, I felt free to
    deviate from the standard design where I wanted to (like those changes listed
    in that comparison, and others), or to make no changes when changes weren't necessary
    (like thick-thin contrast, which you'd expect to get much lower in a serif for
    screen, but wasn't necessary in Turnip). \r\n\r\n<blockquote>J Tillman: What do
    you think about the capital letters like T and F not letting the lowercase letters
    slide in close?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhile I had InDesign open, I made this image
    of F and T words compared to other cap-lowercase combos, for you to see.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/feefifofum_6576.03.png]"
  created: '2012-09-11 12:49:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>In the screen version of Turnip they reduced the characteristic
    tension between the insides and the outsides. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nIsn\u2019t
    it a bit misleading to be looking at outlines anyway? I mean, how much \u201Ctension
    between insides and outsides\u201D can you display in the space of 7px high when
    the stem is essentially a single px weight?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TurnipRE_12px_5454.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TurnipRE_48_6364.png]"
  created: '2012-09-11 13:43:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But if you can't display it, why reduce it in the outlines meant for the
    screen? Or even: might you not <em>exaggerate</em> an important characteristic
    of your design to make sure it shows up on the screen?\r\n\r\n(David, thanks for
    the elaboration.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-11 14:23:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>But if you can't display it, why reduce it in the outlines meant
    for the screen?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFirst of all, DJR claims that it hasn\u2019t
    been reduced in the outlines for Turnip RE. \r\n\r\nSo that aside, in general
    one might reduce idiosyncrasies in outlines for screen (i.e., from those meant
    for hi-res, albeit small size, in print) in order to better manage the practical
    rasterization at various small sizes.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>might you not <em>exaggerate</em>
    an important characteristic of your design to make sure it shows up on the screen?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMy
    point is that certain characteristics can\u2019t show up on the screen \u2014
    such as we have now, anyway \u2014 not for the RE targets.\r\n\r\nSo, to go back
    to one of your earlier questions\_\u2014 \r\n<blockquote>Does this mean the screen
    impedes un-chirographic design?</blockquote>\r\n\u2014 I suspect the answer may
    be [currently] Yes."
  created: '2012-09-11 18:19:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Which would be perplexing, considering it's made up of dots and not strokes...\r\n\r\nMaybe
    instead it's that the screen's coarseness limits the inclusion of useful details.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-11 19:48:03'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Squared counters can reduce noise on screen. Quite a bit, in fact. Here\u2019s
    an <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/56183109@N02/5762338383/in/photostream\">/o/</a>
    and a <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/56183109@N02/6113563416/in/photostream\">/g/</a>
    I once drew as a screen experiment, albeit without rendering samples. Squared
    white + diamond shaped black."
  created: '2012-09-11 22:04:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Squared white + diamond shaped black</blockquote>\r\n \r\nGiambattista
    Bodoni (and Morris Fuller Benton) say \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3744.png]\r\n:-)"
  created: '2012-09-11 22:27:58'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "really, only the bottom loop of the g looks very square to me. I mean i know
    its there elsewhere, but its not exaggerated enough for people to take notice.
    \ IMO.\r\n\r\nTalking about Frode Franks post"
  created: '2012-09-11 23:43:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>its not exaggerated enough for people to take notice.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich,
    in a text face, is exactly a feature and not a bug.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-12 00:07:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@enne_son: Not had time to read the entire thread, but it might help others
    participate in the discussion if you defined terms and phrases like \u201Csystematic
    violation of (expansionist) chirographic logic\u201D and \u201Cdeliberated dissociation.\u201D
    Perhaps it\u2019s just me, but I have always been a fan of <a href=\"http://www.plainlanguage.gov/whatisPL/index.cfm\">Plain
    Language</a>. Especially in academic writing."
  created: '2012-09-12 04:16:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Christopher, I'm assuming that most readers of these forums are familiar
    with Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s term <em>expansion</em>. Noordzij uses this term to
    characterize the contrast scheme typical of the pointed nib pen, and some readers
    will know that the contrast in Bookman is of this sort. \r\n\r\nThose who've read
    the links provided will probably connect readily with the \u2018dissociation\u2019
    comment.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I could have elaborated more in my opening post, but the
    thread has taken off nicely, including posts by the creator of the font.\r\n\r\nPeter"
  created: '2012-09-12 14:27:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t think the issue of the chirographic relationship between inner
    and outer outlines (i.e. how dif\uFB01cult it would be to write a font glyph with
    a pointed nib pen) is particularly relevant to serifed, contrasting stroke typefaces.\r\n\r\nYou
    might just as well discuss their \u201Cpunchographic\u201D quality.\r\nFred Smeijers
    did something like that in <em>Counterpunch</em>.\r\n\r\nThe Stroke is a useful
    paradigm for analyzing type structure with words, and type designers may certainly
    use it as part of the conceptual scaffolding of a face, but the relationship between
    stroke and counter in serifed, contrasting stroke type plays a minor role for
    the reader, entangled in a complex relationship between glyph parts.\r\n\r\nMost
    letters (18 out of 26 in the English lower case) don\u2019t have enclosed counters,
    and serifs and terminals are more instrumental in determining negative space than
    the stroke.\r\n\r\nWhile it is easy to see, and postulate, a relationship between
    the two elements of stem shape and negative shape in a sans face, it\u2019s almost
    impossible to see this relationship in a contrasty serifed face, because stroke
    shape is confounded with serif shape, terminal shape and stroke contrast, and
    obscured by optical cheats, such as the heavy bottom of Times\u2019 /e, that further
    divorce the typographic stroke from one that might have been made by a simple
    broad-nibbed pen held at a consistent angle.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aen_5709.png]\r\nHaving
    said that, a low contrast slab serifed face like Turnip does show more of the
    counter-to-stroke relationship than a face like Times."
  created: '2012-09-12 16:06:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I have to say that makes no sense to me, on a number of fronts, such
    as: serifs can be chirographic too (in fact that's their origin!); a counter doesn't
    have to be fully enclosed to be relevant as a counter; Times is much more chirographic
    than Turnip; you don't have to hold the \"pen\" at a consistent angle to make
    chirography...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-12 17:06:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>serifs can be chirographic</em>\r\n\r\nBut more punchographic in a face
    like Times, vectorgraphic in Turnip.\r\n\r\n<em>a counter doesn't have to be fully
    enclosed to be relevant as a counter;</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but there is a topological/categorical
    disctinction between a closed counter, which is a discrete shape, and an open
    counter, which is partly vague, open to interpretation, and blends with other
    open counters. I don\u2019t believe readers see such counters as discrete entities,
    or are as aware of their functionality as that of closed counters.\r\n\r\n<em>you
    don't have to hold the \"pen\" at a consistent angle to make chirography...</em>\r\n\r\nHowever,
    broad pen writing with consistent angle is where the stroke is most apparent.\r\nBy
    the time we get to considering drawing Times with a pointed nib, the amount of
    adjustments of angle and pressure required so far remove letterform from being
    a smooth expression of writing as to make it carefully constructed drawing/lettering,
    fakery of the notion of Stroke. At least, that is the way I see and \u201Cfeel\u201D
    it, as a calligrapher. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-12 17:47:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote> the amount of adjustments of angle and pressure required so
    far remove letterform from being a smooth expression of writing</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd
    my contention has been that this is true of type design in essence, not to mention
    virtually all fonts - certainly text fonts.\r\n\r\nThe tool affects the results
    because humans want to save time; and not having to think deeply saves time too!
    Also, emotion cannot be discounted (especially in a craft that's essentially performed
    for culture more than capitalism) and our penchant for romantically latching on
    to a long-dead precedent means that gems like Legato, Fenland and Turnip are still
    extremely rare.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-12 17:58:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Yes, modern text faces save time. This is the only reason there are not more
    time-wasting fonts around.
  created: '2012-09-12 21:40:44'
- author:
    name: Sonoraphobic
    picture: 126103
  body: Ugh, the description. "Turnip is coarse and down-to-earth."
  children:
  - author:
      name: J. Tillman
      picture: 118124
    body: Sonoraphobic, I agree. This is an artful typeface. I've been looking at
      it as a very readable text typeface. And it deserves a more appropriate description.
    created: '2012-12-26 16:46:36'
  created: '2012-12-25 23:37:27'
date: '2012-09-05 23:38:32'
node_type: forum
title: 'Turnip: a Bookman-like serif face with rounded outer shapes and squarish inner
  shapes'

---
