---
author:
  name: Fabiouser
  picture: 123122
body: "Hello typophiles\r\n\r\nIm learning the principles of designing a typeface
  via software assistant. So, when I need to control beziers to make a 'perfect curve'
  I fail again and again. I know that failing is good, but I think that the position
  of points and handles have some science on it. \r\n\r\nToday I realize something
  that perhaps could help me, but I dont know if it make sense, have a look:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/handles_6446.png]\r\n\r\nIt
  seem to me that handles follow a certain logic that we can find in the structure
  of calligraphic variations\u2026\r\nThis make sense to you?\r\n\r\nWhere do you
  [typographers] learn the 'art' of place perfect points and handles?\r\n\r\n--------\r\nThanks\r\nF\xE1bio
  Santos"
comments:
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I think the only way you'll learn the \"art\" of placing perfect points and
    handles is by doing it over and over. \r\n\r\nIn Fontlab, you ideally want your
    points to be at the extremes of curves.\r\n\r\nAlso, note that different software
    behaves slightly differently when it comes to things like deleting bezier points
    (Fontlab and Illustrator, for instance)."
  created: '2012-09-12 21:57:34'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: at last, a real question
  created: '2012-09-12 22:04:31'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "The positioning of the anchor points is the most significant thing to achieve
    a desired curve. If your anchor points are in the wrong position, you may spend
    hours (yes) trying in vain to get the control points \"right\".\r\n\r\nTo understand
    how to place your anchor points you must understand at least some basic principles
    of chirography and stroke modulation. Almost all control points come in <em>pairs</em>:
    for every point there is an opposite point (cf. the brace in your image) at the
    parallel curve. If you draw a line across each pair of points, you will find out
    their angle follows a nearly [[http://typophile.com/node/13877|ductal logic]].
    With designs that go apart from chirography the game becomes harder, but to be
    good at that you first need to fail, again and again, and I can't help you with
    that.\r\n\r\nThe principle is the same for the control points: <em>Always</em>
    think in terms of two lines <em>interacting</em> with each other :-)\r\n\r\nI
    have always seen the \"put your points in extrema\" convention as a restraint."
  created: '2012-09-12 22:47:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is exactly what you shouldn't be doing.\r\n\r\nThe \"principles of designing
    a typeface\" start and end with the mind's eye, not some arbitrary body part holding
    an arbitrary marking tool. \r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-13 00:08:28'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "@LexLuengas really taught answer :) thanks;\r\n\r\n@hrant my words about
    <em>principles to design a typeface</em> means in software aid creation system.
    I do search and drawi typeforms by hand, to train my mind and my knowledge, I'm
    addicted to it. I just want to know how I can do some experiences in that way.
    I do not ask this <em>arbitrary</em> :). I don't give up of drawing, and I do
    not like to sit every hour in front of the computer screen. But, I appreciate
    the concern :)\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-13 02:06:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not sure I understood everything you wrote (and I don't know what you
    keep smiling at) but:\r\n\r\nDon't confuse drawing with -what can quite accurately
    be called- painting. I draw by hand all the time - it can be wonderfully useful.
    But we should be drawing the border between black and white, not pairs of lines
    enclosing the black (which makes no sense functionally, hence is an arbitrary
    design constraint, a lazy shortcut to nowhere).\r\n\r\nPainting only \"trains
    your mind and knowledge\" about type's arbitrary past; when it comes to what function
    type needs to perform, it can only distract you. It doesn't matter if you're using
    a broad-nib pen, b\xE9ziers or a ripe avocado tied to a stick.\r\n\r\nRelated:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31095\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-13 03:06:03'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "Conterpunch\u2026 "
  created: '2012-09-13 03:46:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait, I thought you said \"The Stroke\" was helping you achieve perfection...
    Please, no romantic blanket statements. {Now edited - thank you.} \"Counterpunch\"
    is a great book, but it's no type design bible. Luckily we don't have a bible,
    and hopefully we never will.\r\n\r\nBTW it might surprise you to hear that the
    section about the \"j\" in \"Counterpunch\" was actually what started me on the
    journey that led to my rejection of calligraphic type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-13 03:57:44'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "<em>Today I realize something that perhaps could help me, but I dont know
    if it make sense, have a look:</em>\r\n\r\nI refer calligraphic forms in this
    node because when I open a typeface on Fontlab, I realize that the handles have
    some kind of position that resembles the calligraphic experiences that Gerrit
    Noordzij mention on his book [like the image].\r\n\r\nI do like some calligraphic
    experiences from the past.\r\n\r\nIts nice to know how books can make us reject
    and accept things. Its a curious phenomenon."
  created: '2012-09-13 04:36:27'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Keep in mind when designing type, all curves are psychological.
  created: '2012-09-13 23:10:45'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "<blockquote> But we should be drawing the border between black and white,
    not pairs of lines enclosing the black </blockquote>\r\n\r\nHrant, perhaps you
    misunderstood me in my last comment. What I intended to say was that, if your
    design is chirographical, then your anchor points should <em>reflect that logic</em>
    you have chosen. But there is not and should not be a fixation towards a chirographical
    logic, or any other logic at all. I completely agree with you in that aspect.
    \r\n\r\nBut there <em>is</em> a logic between the two lines that delimit the shape
    of a letter. If that interrelationship is meaningful in some way, then this shape
    will be of some value for \"the mind's eye\".\r\n\r\nHowever, I don't understand
    why you would discourage a chirographical approach by someone who has presumably
    just started with typography. I assume you didn't wan't to discourage the chirographical
    logic itself (but I may be utterly wrong), but the fixation to that kind of logic.
    I think it is pretty useful as a starting point, and I also think one has to be
    careful by making such preclusive statements against chirography, in particular
    in front of people who do not have any judgement yet. After all, it's better to
    try to understand Vivaldi and Mozart before trying to understand Thelonius Monk
    and Keith Jarret."
  created: '2012-09-13 23:33:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"logic\" you're talking about is specifically called the \"moving front\"
    (by Noordzij), and it does make sense, in its own world.\r\n\r\nWhat bothered
    me about how F\xE1bio expressed his intentions was the apparent view that the
    moving front is how typographic forms look \"perfect\". To me this is totally
    wrong.\r\n\r\nAs for whether a beginner should start with the obvious precedents
    or not, the problem is this precedent is a bad one (something Vivaldi and Mozart
    are not). I guess it also depends greatly on the individual beginner: some people
    are strong enough to turn a bad precedent to their advantage; but some people
    get hopelessly stuck for the rest of their lives.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-14 00:08:52'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "<blockquote>What bothered me about how F\xE1bio expressed his intentions
    was the apparent view that the moving front is how typographic forms look \"perfect\".
    To me this is totally wrong.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNow I understand your 'concern'
    @hrant. I think that the use of the word <em>perfect</em> by myself, was maybe
    a bad choice. But my intention with this node is just to share a point of view
    that pop up in my mind and, with that, know if my point of view make any sense
    to all of you."
  created: '2012-09-14 00:30:38'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Bezier curves inner logic is in no way related to natural geometric, calligraphic
    or chirographic constructions.\r\nThere is a book called \"Type by design\" which
    was an instruction book for fontographer. I contains a complete description of
    the nature of the Bezier curve and many guidelines to achieve the best results
    with them:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Fontographer-Type-Design-Stephen-Moye/dp/1558284478\r\n\r\nI
    used to have a PDF of this book but I lost it with my laptop on a fire.\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-14 01:21:05'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "I already put my eyes on that book @rs_donata. A school library near my school
    have it on the shelf. \r\nI start too look to the ways that characters were made,
    and I became fascinated, I think that book make me realize some hidden secrets
    of typeface design. I also brought a nice book: <strong>Learn FontLab Fast</strong>,
    by Leslei Cabarga.\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2012-09-14 03:06:38'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I prefer to build in TTF format, becuase it seems only TTF can have those
    kind of curves where the anchor point floats off the line, and is not connected
    via a control arm.  I believe they are called splines, instead of bezier curves?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    when it does come to Bezier Curves, I seem to strangely be wanting a way to lock
    down the control arms while moving the node around, which is opposite of how one
    usually edits bezier, where the nodes stay in one place while you're moving around
    the control arms.\r\n\r\nAnd then we can talk about spiro...\r\n\r\nTo say the
    least I still think we have quite a ways to go in \"curve editing\" as far as
    techniques are concerned. "
  created: '2012-09-14 19:52:40'
- author:
    name: sko
    picture: 124613
  body: Both use Bezier curves, but TTF use quadratic while PostScript uses cubic
    beziers.
  created: '2012-09-14 20:20:43'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: Ryan, what you mentioned about moving the point while keeping the control
    wings is exactly what I have wanted to do in vector software for some time now.
    I end up using guides to locate the control points and then move the anchor and
    reposition the control points. It would be incredibly useful to do this for the
    type of vector work I do for logos and such.
  created: '2012-09-14 21:27:06'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Ya Luma I do the same in Illy too. To me it helps visualize the flow of the
    path whilst maintaining a comparable effect. \r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-09-14 22:18:36'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<blockquote>I seem to strangely be wanting a way to lock down the control
    arms while moving the node around, which is opposite of how one usually edits
    bezier</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIs it the opposite of usual? I edit curves like this
    all the time, and I think most outline editors can do that.\r\n\r\nFontLab Studio:
    shift-drag\r\nRobofont: cmd-drag"
  created: '2012-09-14 22:24:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Glyphs: option-drag'
  created: '2012-09-14 22:47:42'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Always play with the modifier keys when you're learning a program, and you'll
    discover all sorts of things.\r\n\r\nIn Fontlab, holding down Alt/Opt while moving
    a cusp node will move the node while its handles stay in place. Holding down Shift
    before moving a smooth node will keep the handles in place and constrain the node
    to the line segment between them. (Shift after you've picked up the node is your
    usual rectilinear constraint.) Holding down Alt before moving a smooth node will
    scale and rotate the handles according to the node's relative position along the
    curve. Alt after you've picked up a smooth node will work like it does for a cusp
    node, creating a false cusp that will spring back to smooth the next time you
    mess with the handles."
  created: '2012-09-14 22:58:19'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Has any application ever implemented [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%C3%A9zier_curve#Rational_B.C3.A9zier_curves|rational
    b\xE9zier curves]]? I think it would be quite useful (not only for quadratic curves
    as shown in the article's image). Maybe it was in front of me all the time and
    I haven't noticed."
  created: '2012-09-15 00:33:21'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Thanks, that alt drag is handy
  created: '2012-09-15 00:40:49'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "Its that think I like here: Put ignition on fire and have meal of it.\r\n\r\nCubic
    B\xE9ziers? Quadratic B\xE9ziers? Wikipedia have a really formal article on that
    theme; but mathematics aspects have to much emphasis\u2026 Like @Ryan said <em>all
    curves are psychological<em/>. \r\n\r\nMathematics help us to forget psychological
    problems?"
  created: '2012-09-15 01:48:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Math? It's as real for us as the burin & file and workability of steel were
    for punchcutters.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>modifier keys</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOne more
    - a personal fav: Alt-Shift-clicking on a curve (or even a line) creates \"balanced\"
    BCPs... although you really only want to do that to auto-add a BCP to a \"half-dead\"
    curve (which you might still have to tweak though).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-15 03:19:26'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: Leslie Cabarga referes all that <em>keys</em> in the book I mention before.
    Great book
  created: '2012-09-15 14:49:47'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I doubt many of us are doing math.  Anybody find themselves typing in the
    formula for a super ellipse lately?\r\n\r\nI think what fabiouser is getting at
    is that there is a place where metrics can overpower expression, and vice versa."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Fabiouser
      picture: 123122
    body: "<blockquote>Anybody find themselves typing in the formula for a super ellipse
      lately?\r\nI think what fabiouser is getting at is that there is a place where
      metrics can overpower expression, and vice versa.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n@Ryan
      That's the point!"
    created: '2012-09-15 21:50:51'
  created: '2012-09-15 17:49:08'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Here's another editing idea:  highlight the entire outline, showing all control
    points, and allow us to select all, or any lesser combination of the control points.\r\n\r\nUsually
    you can only edit control points that are connected to a single node.  even if
    you select all the nodes in an outline, once you click on any control point, your
    control gets limited to that point only, so no complex selection groups are capable."
  created: '2012-09-15 18:05:15'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Yep, Quadratic B-splines  (2nd-order curves), is what I was talking about:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quuadratic
    b spline_4349.png]\r\n\r\nSo much easier to work with.  Wish all vector editors
    could use them.\r\n\r\nThe illustration here shows it with only one off curve
    control point between the 2 nodes, but you can put many more inbetween there.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    just checking, there is no way to work with quadratic curves in fontlab when editing
    open type fonts, correct?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cuttlefish
      picture: 111881
    body: "I don't know about Fontlab, but FontForge allows you to choose between
      working with cubic or quadratic bezier splines, and also euler spiral segments
      (my preferred method, but that's a different animal that has to be converted
      to beziers to output a usable font). I do pity the fool who attempts to install
      FF. Give it a few weeks as it's undergoing a major rebuild.\r\n\r\nDammit there
      I go threadjacking again.\r\n\r\nBut anyway, my point is that there is a font
      editor that lets you draw with quadratic splines if you choose to do so. Seems
      like a pain to me, but that's what some others think of Spiro mode, so who am
      I to say\u2026"
    created: '2012-09-15 18:51:51'
  created: '2012-09-15 18:11:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>So much easier to work with.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nJust FYI the
    great majority of people seem to prefer cubic b\xE9ziers.\r\n\r\nBTW could this
    be why your fonts are -what I see as- wobbly?\r\n(Where's that thread where I
    was comparing your \"o\" to one that I like?)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-15 18:17:43'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: why in the world does it still take at least a basic programming course to
    know how to install Font Forge?  This is 2012. Ridiculous..
  children:
  - author:
      name: cuttlefish
      picture: 111881
    body: "re: why in the world does it still take at least a basic programming course
      to know how to install Font Forge?\r\n\r\n\r\nThat is a damn good question."
    created: '2012-09-15 23:14:26'
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: "@Ryan:\r\n\r\nI don't think you need any programming knowledge to install
      FontForge.\r\nFontForge is shitty anyway. But I have seen very active development
      in recent days. Maybe it could be a bit stabler in the future..."
    created: '2012-09-16 18:29:09'
  created: '2012-09-15 21:12:31'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>BTW could this be why your fonts are -what I see as- wobbly?\r\n(Where's
    that thread where I was comparing your \"o\" to one that I like?)</em>\r\n\r\nInteresting,
    and a good catch.  I would say that a lot of the wobbliness is due to the classic
    cubic spline setup, actually.\r\n\r\nThough I prefer to build in Quadratic now,
    it wasn't always this way.  I started off with the standard cubic spline and editing
    mode of the default adobe illustrator install, as I would guess most here have.
    \ Pretty much all my work that is out there was made in the cubic world.\r\n\r\nI
    see quadratic as a way to remove the wobliness, actually. When I want to anyway.
    There is still something to be said for something that looks like it was done
    by hand and is not perfect, especially in todays digital world."
  created: '2012-09-15 21:50:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wash your mouth out - I do not make art.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-15 22:46:55'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I'll quote you on that. :D
  created: '2012-09-15 23:07:56'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Well, Math, and what we are really talking about here, Counting, are ultimately
    abstractions.  For that is their utility. That is what Counting is. A system of
    abstracting or reducing more complex information into a more easily manageable
    set. And data points entered into that system.\r\n\r\nSo in art, unlike as in
    science, measurement will always take a subservient role to what i conveniently
    call the \"psychological intent\" of the curve."
  created: '2012-09-15 23:09:24'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "I think I find something that have a close relation with my original question.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/relationships_6583.png]\r\nIt
    seems like the handles have some logic in that perspective\u2026just like I point
    in the original question I made.\r\nThanks @rs_donsata to remind me that book!"
  created: '2012-09-16 13:04:08'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: "@hrant I think too that typography isn't art. I think that sometimes we need
    a little of subjectiveness.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>THE SHAPES OF LETTERS\r\nThe shapes
    of letters do not derive their beauty from any sensual or sentimental reminiscences.
    No one can say that the O's roundness appeals to us only because it is like that
    of an apple or of a girl's breast or of the full moon. Letters are things, not
    pictures of things.\r\n\u2014Eric Gill, <em>Autobiography</em>, Jonathan Cape,
    London, 1940.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nEven knowing that letters are not pictures of
    things."
  created: '2012-09-16 13:53:43'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: "Is anyone else thinking that those guides all over the /S picture above are
    typical post rationalization? I am not really seeing the relationships they are
    trying to highlight, rather it looks like they found some points that happen to
    be almost in line and connected the dots. This is actually a much more useful
    version of such an idea: http://dribbble.com/shots/446385--s-construction\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-16 16:39:52'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: Looking again, I see they included such a disclaimer. However isn't the intersection
    in the middle of the /O just because it has strong symmetry? A perfect circle
    would exhibit this characteristic, but I doubt anyone here would say that a perfect
    circle is a good /O.
  created: '2012-09-16 16:53:29'
- author:
    name: Fabiouser
    picture: 123122
  body: '@Luma Vine; no one is talking about if you use that way, you get the perfect
    character. Is just a way of seeing things that could make some sense (or not)  '
  created: '2012-09-16 21:49:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I am not really seeing the relationships they are trying to highlight\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    yet, they so often exist. \r\n\r\n\"However isn't the intersection in the middle
    of the /O just because it has strong symmetry? \"\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\n\"A perfect
    circle would exhibit this characteristic, but I doubt anyone here would say that
    a perfect circle is a good /O.\"\r\n\r\nIf you look at the difference between
    this and the intersecting post-rationizations of a perfectly circular O, you'll
    see the differences are the difference between this O and a perfectly circular
    O.\r\n\r\n\"Just FYI the great majority of people seem to prefer cubic b\xE9ziers.\"\r\n\r\nJust
    FYI, the great majority of people have only ever worked with cubic b\xE9ziers.
    So a \"preference\" for any-such only-thing they've ever worked with, is little
    more that a Hrantaggeration in the greater scheme of better things. "
  created: '2012-09-17 21:31:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's certainly true that deep cubic habits aren't happy being moved to quadratic
    (human nature) and cubic had a big head-start, so maybe it's not possible to do
    a fair comparison. But that doesn't mean I'm wrong.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-17 22:24:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...aren't happy being moved...\"\r\n\r\nAnd to whom has this happened?
    do you ever read what you write, think about it, and then edit it? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 10:18:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You really haven't heard anybody complain that working with quadratics is
    more of a pain? I admit I haven't heard it as much lately* but it used to be a
    common refrain. Now, are there occasional technical advantages? Of course, and
    nobody wants to rely [too much] on an automatic conversion from cubics.\r\n\r\n*
    Which I have to wonder why. Is it because people got used to it? Maybe.\r\n\r\nRe-read
    what I write? Every time. Think about it? People accuse me of thinking <em>too
    much</em>. Edit my mistakes? Only if I had a time machine - otherwise it's cheating.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 14:11:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I asked who has \"been moved\" to Quadratics. No one apparently. \r\n\r\n\"You
    really haven't heard anybody complain that working with quadratics is more of
    a pain?\"\r\n\r\nAbout four years ago, back when TT still had secret patents Apple
    was using to \"troll\" for violators (not), and TT instructions could \"Bluescreen\"
    a PC (not), and hints were an unfathomable fur ball (sure, why not), I heard that
    working with FL Quads, and FL Quad conversions was lees than optimal. \r\n\r\nBut
    that's a FontLab thing piled on an Adobe thing. Good quads are cool and give you
    options you never knew you needed. Besides which, getting used to Adobe technology
    is just not as good an idea as it used to be. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 22:40:48'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Alt / Opt - Drag... Can something like this be done in Illustrator?
  created: '2012-09-19 02:22:21'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Quick name the nine dimensions of space... \r\nREADY.... \r\nGOOOOO!!!!"
  created: '2012-09-19 22:12:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Up, in, and across, and around and through each of them. Or you can go with
    what that cartoon about 10 dimensional spacetime said.
  created: '2012-09-20 04:58:14'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I thought it went:\r\n\r\nwidth\r\nheight\r\ndepth\r\ntime\r\nsomething\r\nsomething\r\nsomething\r\nsomething\r\nsomething\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-20 19:41:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "No, no. It's\r\n\r\nwidth\r\nheight\r\ndepth\r\ntime\r\nsomething\r\nsomething\r\nsomething\r\nsomething\r\ndarkside"
  created: '2012-09-20 19:49:22'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: LOL!
  created: '2012-09-20 20:08:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'that cartoon I mentioned: [[http://www.tenthdimension.com/medialinks.php]]'
  created: '2012-09-20 20:09:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: The four somethings in Hudson's list are almost certainly fandom, magic, strangeness
    and frink.
  created: '2012-09-20 23:21:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Pathetic
  created: '2012-09-22 12:32:30'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I don't get the feeling that's on the list.
  created: '2012-09-23 12:04:36'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Ahem, ahem... Going back to the actual topic:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the great
    majority of people seem to prefer cubic b\xE9ziers</blockquote>\r\nThat's because
    quadratic B\xE9zier curves can only represent segments of a parabola. And only
    very few curves are parabola, i.e. this is a clear restriction. On the other hand,
    this is why people may prefer it; parabol\xE6 are per se smooth, \"good looking\"
    curves. As there is only one control point, it's seams easy to control the tension/smoothness
    of the curve, because point with greatest tension (the vertex of the corresponding
    parabola) seems to follow the control point.\r\n\r\nTo understand how this point
    of maximal tension relates to the position of the control point I have written
    a simple applet which can be found [[http://demonstrations.wolfram.com/FocusAndDirectrixInAQuadraticBezierCurve/|here]]
    (requires <em>Wolfram CDF Player</em>, it's worth it). In addition, I plotted
    the focus and directrix of the parabola. To explain these terms, loosely speaking,
    the focus plays the same role in a parabola as the center does in a circle. That
    means, the further this point is from the curve, the \"opener\" it will look.
    The directrix is the line where the parabola \"sits\". More than that is not necessary
    to understand how a quadratic B\xE9zier curve works. Play around and see what
    you find out.*\r\n\r\nAt this point, my last question becomes interesting. \"Well,
    what if you could change the flattness of that quardatic B\xE9zier </em>without</em>
    changing it's direction?\". That's just what so-called <em>rational</em> Bezier
    curves provide. The result is indeed a much more dynamic curve, which can not
    only represent parts of a parabola, but also of ellipses and hyperbolas. All three
    are per definition smooth looking curves; they do not contain any inflection points.
    In other words, none of them is distortable into a bumpy curve. Ellipses, parabolas
    and hyperbolas together make up the class of the <em>conic sections</em>, the
    class of utopic curves [angelic voices]. The applet from the link above also implements
    a rational quadratic B\xE9zier, just change the parameter \u03C9 with the slider.\r\n\r\nSo
    I asked myself why, for the sake of design, has this not been done before. One
    answer is that it's unpractical to have an extra parameter \u03C9, which should
    first easily modifiable. The second, conclusive answer is earned by asking another
    question. What can cubic B\xE9ziers do in comparison to quadratic B\xE9ziers?
    I'll spoil it. Every quadratic Bezier curve can be exactly reproduced by a cubic
    bezier curve. You just have to place the control points of the cubic curve \u2154
    along the \"handles\" of the quadratic. Not only that, but also every rational
    quadratic curve as described above can be drawn by a cubic B\xE9zier, by changing
    the ratio in which the handle points \"cut\" the control polygon of the quadratic
    B\xE9zier. For example, to draw an elliptic curve you would place the handle points
    less than \u2154 the distance to the (imaginary) intersection of the two handle
    lines. To draw an hyperbolic curve you would choose a distance greater than \u2154
    (but please still less than the intersection). I have written [[http://demonstrations.wolfram.com/RationalCubicBezierCurves/|another
    applet]] to illustrate this idea as well.\r\n\r\nI hope that settles the conflicting
    speculations of Hrant and David somehow, which I wished to interrupt since the
    beginning but hadn't had time :-)\r\n\r\nSummary and some more ideas:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>
    Quadratics B\xE9zier curves can only represent segments of a parabola.</li>\r\n<li>
    Every quadratic B\xE9zier curve can be reconstructed from a cubic B\xE9zier curve
    by placing the control points \u2154 of the distance to the (imaginary) intersection
    of both handle-lines.</li>\r\n<li> If you place the control points at a smaller
    radio, you get an elliptic curve.</li>\r\n<li> If you place them at a greater
    ratio, you get a hyperbolic curve.</li>\r\n<li> To know if both control points
    sit at the same ratio, just check if the imaginary line that passes through the
    control points is parallel to the imaginary line that passes through the anchor
    points.</li>\r\n<li> If your \"control lines\" intersect at at least one your
    handles, your curve has an inflection point, which you want to avoid.** In every
    point where the direction (concavity) of the curve changes, there should be a
    new anchor point.</li>\r\n<li> Separating the control points (maintaining the
    length of the handles) means making the curve more elliptic. Bringing them closer
    makes it more hyperbolic.</li>\r\n<li> Not because there's a specific constellation
    of the B\xE9zier points for obtaining specially \"simple\" curves does it necessarily
    mean one should develop such a drawing habit. But if we know beforehand we're
    going after an outline of that nature, we have such tools at our disposition.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n________\r\n*
    Note: the bending energy is a measure of tension.\r\n** Actually, if you go further
    and create a loop, the inflection points disappear, but recurving serpentines
    are not what we're looking for."
  created: '2012-10-12 18:03:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's an interesting -and to me valid- point that the simpler the curve the
    easier it is to make-look-nice; and I think most people feel that the simplest
    curve of all, the straight line :-) is the nicest looking one!\r\n\r\nHowever,
    and without trying to agree with David :-) I would say that:\r\n- Nice-to-look
    at does not equate to easy-to-make.\r\n- It takes more effort to make a cubic
    act like a quadratic, so why bother?\r\n- What about ensuring smoothness across
    segments? This is especially true of quadratics, where avoiding inflection points
    simply means those points could/would be between segments.\r\n\r\nNice of you
    to make those applets - I'll try to install the player to see.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 18:16:26'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "good notes, Lex, and sexy looking a for your avatar.\r\n\r\nI thought that
    converting from quadratic to regular bezier could be done flawlessly, although
    this doesn't always seem to be the case in fontlab.\r\n\r\nTechniques used to
    build something don't have to be the techniques with which it is displayed to
    the masses, by which I mean building in quadratic and publishing in bezier shouldn't
    even be something we have to think about.  Instead we should just be able to choose
    whatever type of curves we want, from bezier to quadratic to spiro, or even raster
    based \"paint\" and not to worry about the translation in to whatever format.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAn
    interesting blend of regular bezier and quadratic is to edit a bezier curve, not
    by moving the control points, but by grabbing the curve itself and moving it around.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nI
    don't think that straight lines will ever surpass curves in terms of beauty, but
    I have been exploring of late how <em>smooth</em> straight lines can look connected
    together perhaps more obtusely than what one immediately thinks of."
  created: '2012-10-15 02:31:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...most people feel that the simplest curve of all, the straight line [...]
    is the nicest looking...\"\r\n\r\nuhhu, and the nicest day's the darkest night,
    and the wettest ocean the driest desert and the highest mountain the deepest valley...
    in Hrantasia ;)\r\n\r\n\"You just have to place the control points of the cubic
    curve \u2154 along the \"handles\" of the quadratic.\"\r\n\r\nThis has been clear
    since the first quadratic drawing tool. 1000's of fonts have been drawn using
    these tools. \r\n\r\nAm I reading the dates of these posts wrong?"
  created: '2012-10-18 13:55:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're right - I was being too Modernist. In fact we Hrantistanis try to
    avoid those Hrantasian flatlanders.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-18 15:07:03'
date: '2012-09-12 21:46:19'
title: "Handles, B\xE9ziers & Points "

---
