---
author:
  name: Paul Cutler
  picture: 110643
body: "I can feel it pulsating through me - you and I oldnick are one - my conclusion
  was different - this morning I had the epiphany I'm free - so I started a YouTube
  channel to realize that :\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gSFhPLnEhXI\r\nThe first
  song.\r\n\r\npbc"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\n<em>Quel dommage</em>: being me is not particularly easy these
    days, especially since my wife's mind got totally blown, two weeks ago today.
    The doctors have no idea what happened, or if she will ever recover.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    on a positive note, Jeff Beck\u2014dog-faced boy with cat-like eyes\u2014was,
    evidently, expecting me that fall day in 1965, so I figure that he's in on it,
    too\u2026whatever it is. The Great Pretender, Jimmy Page, never got what Jeff
    passed on to me; this rendition is totally wrong, and isn't it odd that you NEVER
    see Page's face in this video\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MLv7viCMGo8"
  created: '2012-09-16 20:36:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've been feeling it hovering above my shoulders for a few years now.\r\nIt
    has yet to take a seat.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-16 20:44:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, if you're going for this, I suggest drums or bass. If all the typographers
    with mid-life crises play guitar, how will you form a band? Oh, and although he's
    a little young still, you definitely want Adam Twardoch on vocals.
  created: '2012-09-16 22:13:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If I must play an instrument, it would have to be the canon.\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TX-6fv3kuJs\r\nAlthough
    aurally nothing beats the 'ood.\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MsrPBNmh5Qk\r\nPlus
    personal bonus: http://www.oud.eclipse.co.uk/kenkulian.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-16 22:32:29'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "oldnick - May the rough waters of your journey subside.\r\n\r\nsic transit
    gloria mundi\r\n\r\nThe oud is the bomb.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-16 23:47:33'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Back in my day we couldnt buy a fast car for our mid live crises, we had to
    buy a fast mule.
  created: '2012-09-17 00:47:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'I passed mid-life crisis and have moved on to late-life crisis.  I cant''t
    afford to buy fast acting pain reliever so I''ll just hobble along with arthritis,
    heart disease, asthma, and COPD while I weight for the bus. '
  created: '2012-09-17 00:58:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>you definitely want Adam Twardoch on vocals.</em>\r\n\r\nWithout a doubt\u2014always
    go with the prettiest boy in the room to front the band.\r\n\r\nAnd, Paul and
    Hrant: do not forget the didgeridoo. I ALMOST bought one many years ago, and now
    regret my passing on the opportunity. OTOH, my neighbors are, no doubt, cumulatively
    grateful\u2026\r\n\r\nChris, I would suggest my \u201Cmagic formula\u201D\u2014I
    lost over fifty-five founds in the past six months and no longer need meds to
    control my cholesterol, solely with amino acids and vitamins costing less than
    a dollar a day\u2014but, so far, no one has joined me in my Grand Experiment\u2026because,
    I suppose, there is some minor trepidation that my \u201Cformula\u201D may contribute
    to my being certifiably loony. In fact, nothing could be further from the truth:
    I went around the bend LOOOONG before then."
  created: '2012-09-17 05:40:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have a theory that cancer is caused by eating.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-17 05:52:31'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "You're probably right, but death is caused by not.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-17 06:01:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What I mean is we should eat as little as possible; and exercising to get
    rid of the side-effects of over-eating doesn't work.\r\n\r\nSort of related: http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-19112549\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-17 06:08:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Either way - it's a win-win situation.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-17 06:08:32'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "May I rephrase that?\r\nHedonic calculus.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-17 06:11:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nLess is, indeed, more. So far, I have managed several six-day
    stints of nothing more than bread and water\u2014cleverly disguised as Beck's
    Non-alcoholic Beer\u2014and found the results edifying. Hell: even my eight-day
    self-imposed bread-and-water diet while in the custody of the Fairfax County Sheriff's
    Department's Restricted Issue Unit (read: torture/mind control chamber) wasn't
    all that bad. Well, relatively speaking, at least. Bonus: working-class hero street
    creds. The local skateboarders suggested a Mike Tyson-style tattoo; I am thinking
    maybe a henna version might be more appropriate\u2026and, definitely, AFTER my
    trials, not before.\r\n\r\nBut, after I staged my hunger strike and busted up
    the operation, I found myself thirty-five miles from home, without a penny on
    me, I came across a fig tree in full bloom along the side of the road! It was\u2026well\u2026transcendental.
    The Lord works in mysterious ways.\r\n\r\nBTW, a remake of this little gem will
    be my next project...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2f9dFrvBr4"
  created: '2012-09-17 09:02:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I eat very little, less than 1,200 calories per day and eat no meat but I
    never lose weight.
  created: '2012-09-17 12:37:36'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Wow. That canon reminds me of the grand kantele:\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0JRaBoiN0_A]]"
  created: '2012-09-17 14:27:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. eating:\r\n\r\nIntermittent fasting is indeed a good thing. If you consider
    that for most of our species' history on the planet we were subsisted on hunting
    and gathering it is clear that we are evolved, like all hunting animals, to irregular
    periods of eating and fasting. The notion of three meals per day at fixed times
    is an invention of the agricultural and industrial periods, and have more to do
    with the regulation of work than with the needs of the human body.\r\n\r\nWith
    regard to diet, weight and health, though, what matters is not how much you eat
    but <em>what you eat.</em> The fallacy that what matters is calories consumed
    and calories burned presumes that the human body is a simple thermodynamic engine.
    It isn't: it is a complex biochemical engine that does different things with different
    input: 500 calories of protein, 500 calories of fat and 500 calories of sugar
    are processed in completely different ways and have very different effects on
    weight and health. Chris, you mention that you eat less than 1,200 calories per
    day, eat no meat and never lose weight, and also that you suffer from arthritis,
    heart disease, asthma, and COPD. Am I right in thinking that your diet includes
    hefty amounts of carbohydrates, bowel irritants and inflammation-causing 'foods'
    such as grains, rice, corn, beans, etc..\r\n\r\nPeople have various theories about
    the significance of the paintings at Lascaux and Chauvet and other palaeolithic
    sites. It seems obvious to me: <a href=\"http://deitchman.com/mcneillslides/images/lascaux-hunters.jpg\">they're
    instruction manuals on what to eat</a>. Note the absence of potatoes."
  created: '2012-09-17 19:06:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nI quit eating meat within the past year because it was a bowel irritant
    :-)"
  created: '2012-09-17 22:57:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Chris, what was your source for that information? To my knowledge, there
    is nothing in meat that acts as a bowel irritant: if there were, the human species
    would probably never have survived. This is not to say that meat is easy to digest
    <em>if</em> your bowels are inflamed or perforated, but that''s not the fault
    of the meat but of what is causing inflammation or perforation. Stopping eating
    meat may simply mask the damage that is being done by making you less aware of
    problems in your digestive tract. I recommend reading up on lectins in grains,
    seeds and beans, and their affect on intestinal metabolism and damage.'
  created: '2012-09-18 00:02:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: My source is my Gastro-interoligist (and the consultant nutritionist that
    he recommended) after doing an endoscopy and colonoscopy.
  created: '2012-09-18 00:10:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, meat made mind: humans beings are so because we became carnivorous
    as a species about a quarter of a million years ago. Myelin, a.k.a. white matter,
    is about two-thirds fat and one-third protein. A diet rich in fat and protein
    is essential to brain growth, which effectively ceases after age thirty, at which
    time fat and protein get stored\u2026and cause health problems, obviously. Eating
    like a kid is good for kids, but not for adults.\r\n\r\nOTOH, you can retune your
    body for a twenty-five-year-old's metabolism, if you have a mind to. Fifty-seven
    pounds in six months\u2014documented by my nurse practitioner\u2014is proof of
    claim. Unfortunately, the process leaves you terminally loony\u2026or, so I am
    told."
  created: '2012-09-18 00:12:56'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Armenian canon\r\nFinnish kantele\r\nRomani cimbalon:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYrvRqFPfgI&feature=related\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0mR0_nFTato\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-18 00:13:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>My source is my Gastro-interoligist (and the consultant nutritionist
    that he recommended)</em>\r\n\r\nHere's something to make you popular with both:
    ask them to provide you with peer reviewed journal articles of controlled experiments
    on which they have based their advice. I've given up accepting the advice of any
    nutritionist or dietician on authority because the bias in their studies are now
    so blatant that they <a href=\"http://garytaubes.com/2012/03/science-pseudoscience-nutritional-epidemiology-and-meat/\">barely
    qualify as science</a>.\r\n\r\nNick: <em>at which time fat and protein get stored\u2026and
    cause health problems, obviously. </em>\r\n\r\nI can reliably say that the weight
    and health problems of people on a modern diet have far, far more to do with sugar
    intake than with fat and protein. It is really difficult to get overweight on
    a diet of fat and protein: I know because I eat plenty but weigh 30lbs less than
    I did last summer and my body fat percentage has dropped to 14%. This from simply
    avoiding most sugars and all grain and legumes. I eat plenty of meat and lots
    of fat, and leafy green vegetables, brassicas and squashes; I don't get hungry,
    even when I fast most of a day, and my energy level remains comfortably high (rather
    than running through the peaks and troughs of sugar burning). Oh, and I don't
    think I've become terminally loony in the process."
  created: '2012-09-18 00:52:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, not just any meat: fish. That's what allowed the African humans to
    get smart enough and wipe out the European Neanderthals.\r\n\r\nJohn, I lost 25
    pounds, have constant decent energy and rarely feel hungry thanks to... sugar.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 01:24:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nI will let you argue with the doctors.  I just don't have the ability
    to keep a straight face when I ask my GI to check his facts because a friend of
    mine who is a typographer, disagrees with the diagnosis and or treatment. :-)\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I don't eat sugar.  Mostly, I eat Greek yogurt, vegetables, fresh fruit,
    fish and seafood.  I do eat bread.\r\n\r\nWhen I was your age, I ran marathons,
    had boundless energy and felt fantastic. Talk to me when you are over 65."
  created: '2012-09-18 02:21:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@hrant: Surely eating this wouldn\u2019t be bad for us\u2026 \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HF_5440.jpg]\r\n\r\n;)\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 04:08:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Love it, Mr Dean!!!  :-)  but you left out the CE glyphs ;-P
  created: '2012-09-18 04:13:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, I <strong>love</strong> meat. Even raw (when prepared right*). But not
    more than I love Droste, Lindt, Cote d'Or, Neuhaus...\r\n\r\n* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chee_kufta\r\nBTW
    my mom's family was from Urfa.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 04:33:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>I just don't have the ability to keep a straight face when I ask
    my GI to check his facts because a friend of mine who is a typographer, disagrees
    with the diagnosis and or treatment.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not the reason. You should
    ask him to check his facts because you should always ask for sources when taking
    health advice, and you should look critically at the science behind the advice.
    I never said that I disagreed with his diagnosis, only questioned what I presume
    is only one aspect of the treatment (as you presented it, i.e. 'meat is a bowel
    irritant'). The fact that you've been advised off meat but are allowed to eat
    bread simply looks very inconsistent with what is known about the role of lectins
    in intestinal damage and associated conditions. It's odd to me because roughly
    the opposite approach is recommended by other doctors and dieticians -- cut out
    the grains, up the animal protein --, and I know about the science on which that
    advice is based. So I'd like to know on what science the advice you received is
    based. Wouldn't you like to know too? Or is it enough that the guy has a white
    coat? Even if you just ask him to explain <em>what</em> is bad about meat, what
    causes it to be a problem for your digestive tract, he should be able to give
    a physiological explanation. If he can't, I would be concerned."
  created: '2012-09-18 04:38:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nIt is not that simple and you know it.  I won't bother asking you
    for your sources because I am sure that they are impeccable.  I will just say
    that my problems have greatly decreased since I have given up meat.  I used to
    eat a ton of meat and felt lousy then.  So that I am no-longer the middleman in
    this debate, I will forward your name to my GI and tell him you are a great source
    for understanding Indic scripts.  I hope he does not ask me for your sources?
    ;-) "
  created: '2012-09-18 05:05:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Fair put, Chris, and I'm glad to hear that you are feeling better.
  created: '2012-09-18 07:38:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nYou may believe what you wish: if it works for you, then so
    be it. OTOH, \"if it works for you\" IS the operative term. What works for me,
    works for me\u2026which means, occasionally, meat AND sugar, both of which I remediate
    and/or burn off quickly. In fact, with my regimen, I can pretty much eat anything
    I want and maintain my svelte 138-lb. figure.\r\n\r\nI can also pretty much totally
    manage my ATP production consciously, which is quite useful when fight-or-flight
    situations occur: no holdover ACTH problems to deal with later on."
  created: '2012-09-18 08:06:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@dezcom &ndash; What kinda meat did you eat? The store-bought kind that''s
    90% unlisted additives?'
  created: '2012-09-18 10:25:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "T\xE9,\r\nA combination of whatever restaurants served and store-bought.
    \ Often we would shop at an organic butcher shop but who knows what was in it
    :-/"
  created: '2012-09-18 12:38:05'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: If your butcher's can avoid the mass-produced mystery meat, that shouldn't
    be too troublesome. I'm sure you have heard the horror stories of corpses not
    decomposing because of accumulated food preservatives. Heh, sounds like material
    for a really scary sombie movie.
  created: '2012-09-18 13:19:52'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "You got a medical exam from a specialist, and following his advice has made
    you feel better. Sounds like you're doing the right thing.\r\n\r\nMy only suggestion
    \u2014 and your nutritionist has probably already suggested this \u2014\_is that
    since you've given up meat you need to make sure you're getting enough protein.
    All of us lose muscle mass as we get older, which can lead to muscle weakness,
    falls, etc., and lack of protein can make this worse as it is needed to maintain
    muscles. But if you're still eating fish this probably isn't a problem."
  created: '2012-09-18 16:29:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "My father was a physician, and a very good one. One of the few things he
    said \u201Cnever take medical advice from someone who\u2019s not a doctor.\u201D
    And probably his biggest complant was patients self diagnosing, especially \u201CWell
    my Aunt took this drug, and it worked for her\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nKind of reminds
    me of a client telling me how to do my job, right down to the colour of the logo
    because \u201CI like blue. My wife just bought blue drapes.\u201D\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5AxwaszFbDw"
  created: '2012-09-18 18:50:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>never take medical advice from someone who\u2019s not a doctor</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    is good advice so far as it goes. I would only add 'Ask the doctor what is the
    basis for his advice'. Seriously, otherwise you're just trusting the fact that
    this guy has a white coat. Yes, he has a medical degree, but you've no idea how
    up to date he is with current research, what biases he subscribes to, or how critically
    he engages with the research the underpins his treatment plans. Given that standard
    of care by doctors, specialists and dieticians is demonstrably failing to curb
    massive increase in diabetes, obesity and metabollic syndrome, it doesn't seem
    to me unreasonable to ask on what basis nutrition advice, in particular, is based."
  created: '2012-09-18 19:11:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>You may believe what you wish: if it works for you, then so be
    it. OTOH, \"if it works for you\" IS the operative term.</em>\r\n\r\nEr, no, when
    it comes to physical reality I can't believe what I wish, and I recognise that
    'working for me' is merely anecdotal evidence, as is Chris' 'feeling better'.
    There are people who feel better after taking homeopathic remedies, despite the
    fact that most of these remedies do not even contain <em>any</em> active ingredient
    and none have passed a single controlled trial since testing of them began well
    over a hundred years ago. When it comes to physical reality, I rely on the physical
    sciences, which means reading the science and evaluating it, and in the case of
    health and nutrition critically interrogating the use of science by healthcare
    professionals. If someone tells me that 'meat is a bowel irritant' I really do
    want to know on what basis that claim is made. I'm not choosing to believe or
    disbelieve something about physical reality, I am asking for information about
    the claim so that I can form a reasoned judgement of it. In order to be a bowel
    irritant, something that you eat must contain something that interacts with the
    digestive tract in a way that causes stress or damage to it. Okay, so what in
    meat meets that criterion? That seems to me a very reasonable question to ask
    when someone claims that meat is a bowel irritant. How is it a bowel irritant?
    What is the physiological process involved?\r\n\r\nAs it happens, I can think
    of one really easy way in which meat might be a bowel irritant, and that is if
    the meat is from grain-fed cattle, because then the meat will contain lectins
    from the grain, and lectins definitely are bowel irritants (and worse: through
    damage to the intestines they enter the bloodstream and are a factor in autoimmune
    diseases; the damage they cause also allows other molecules that shouldn't enter
    the bloodstream to do so). But obviously the culprit here is not meat per se,
    but the grain that the animal was fed, contrary to its natural diet. Which takes
    me back to my surprise that Chris received advice to give up meat but not, apparently,
    to give up grain, despite the fact that grain is frequently one of the first things
    that people with bowel problems are told to avoid.\r\n\r\nAs I suggested in my
    first comment on this subject, 'feeling better' is not an objective measure of
    bowel health, because some of the most damaging results of irritation and perforation
    of the intestines are not experienced as intestinal discomfort. Hence, removing
    meat from the diet might relieve some symptoms while masking ongoing problems
    caused by other substances.\r\n\r\nLast summer I began eating in a particular
    way because I came to the conclusion that the scientific basis for doing so was
    sound, and that the scientific basis for much of the advice proffered in public
    policy and by professional nutritionists was without merit. How did I come to
    that conclusion? By looking at the science and evaluating it, and examining the
    way the science was being used in forming public policy and nutritionist eating
    plans. I don't think this constitutes 'believing what I wish'. Nor is this conclusion
    founded on 'what works for me', which came later. I will note, however, that in
    addition to feeling good, I am healthier than I was a year ago by objective measures:
    blood pressure, weight and body fat percentage, active pulse rate, etc.."
  created: '2012-09-18 19:13:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>Kind of reminds me of a client telling me how to do my job, right
    down to the colour of the logo because \u201CI like blue. My wife just bought
    blue drapes.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nWere you able to furnish the client with reasons
    why the logo should be something other than blue? Or even why it might be blue,
    but independent of his like or dislike of the colour?\r\n\r\nWhat bothered you
    about this encounter: the fact that someone who is not a designer was suggesting
    to you, the design professional, a design solution? or the fact that the solution
    suggested was wrong? In the case of people following medical advice from non-doctors,
    what matters is surely that if wrong the advice may result in worsening of disease
    or even death. That doesn't seem to me to preclude patients asking doctors to
    explain the reason for diagnosis and treatment, rather than accepting on authority
    what someone in a white coat tells them.\r\n\r\nThis is in part a generational
    thing, I think. My parents and grandparents accepted what they were told by doctors
    without question, just as they largely accepted what they were told by teachers
    and politicians (clergy to a far lesser extent: we were never a very religious
    family). And my critical stance also has a personal aspect: my father spent the
    last decade of his life eating a low fat diet as insisted on by his doctors, and
    then died of kidney disease, a factor of which turned out to be not enough fat
    in his diet."
  created: '2012-09-18 19:27:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>\u201Cnever take medical advice from someone who\u2019s not a
    doctor.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut also put medical advice from doctors in
    the context that most of them just want your money, and they can't make money
    from healthy people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 19:37:17'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I can think of one really easy way in which \r\n> meat might be a bowel
    irritant... grain-fed cattle\r\n\r\nRed meat \u2014 especially fatty meat \u2014
    is a common trigger food for IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome). \r\n\r\nI too must
    avoid certain foods because medical tests showed they caused problems for me.
    It's very common for folks to have allergies or intolerances for certain foods
    (milk, gluten, eggs, or whatever), even though most folks can consume those foods
    without problems. \r\n"
  created: '2012-09-18 20:59:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, we have a second claim, and still the form of my question is '<em>How</em>
    is meat a trigger food for IBS?'\r\n\r\nNote that I've not asked what your sources
    are, although I should, but simply for an explanation of the physiological phenomenon
    asserted in the claim."
  created: '2012-09-18 21:00:38'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Best. Off-topic-conversation. Ever.
  created: '2012-09-18 22:00:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I suspect that taking an interest in diet and nutrition is as much an expression
    of a mid-life crisis as (re)taking up the electric guitar, buying a motorcycle
    or having an affair. But at least it is one that my wife actively encourages;
    indeed, she started it.
  created: '2012-09-18 23:46:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: If those were her options, sounds like she chose wisely.
  created: '2012-09-18 23:58:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Are you kidding? Bikes rule.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-19 00:43:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Just a comment on the Gary Taubes work that John H. has referenced. I read
    quite a bit of Good Calories Bad Calories, and as a one time (and recently again!)
    historian of science, I found it first rate history of science, and the conclusions
    very impressive. However, he can be right and still reduction or elimination of
    meat can be beneficial to some people. The two aren''t in any logical conflict,
    and I''m sure there''s still a lot to be learned about nutrition and individual
    constitutions.  '
  created: '2012-09-19 00:53:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "We\u2019re not discussing mid-life crisis.\r\n\r\nThat occurs when one has
    achieved some security (materially and socially) in life, and has some breathing
    room to re\uFB02ect that all the hard work becoming respectably bourgeois has
    made Jack a dull boy. The term crisis is ironic, because the sports car is quite
    affordable now. It is a term of mildly satirical censure: get back in the ranks
    you ridiculous person, pretending to be the youth you\u2019re no longer\u2014wait
    till your retirement to indulge yourself (in a mature and restrained manner),
    like everybody else.  \r\n\r\nRealizing one\u2019s mortality, with resultant lifestyle
    changes, can happen at any point of a \u201Cnormal\u201D life span.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-19 00:55:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And 55 is the new 45:\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/news/education-19622330\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-19 01:22:33'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> 'How is meat a trigger food for IBS?'\r\n\r\nDon't know, but my guess is
    that it affects people who are deficient in certain stomach enzymes needed to
    break down protein, which leads to undigested meat being passed into the intestines.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    this is somewhat similar to people who have lactose (milk) intolerance. They lack
    the stomach enzymes to break down milk, so it passes undigested into the intestines
    and causes problems."
  created: '2012-09-19 01:23:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "That's a reasonable guess, James, given that enzyme supplements are sometimes
    prescribed for IBS sufferers.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I think IBS still suffers from
    having for so long been denied as a real condition by health professionals, leading
    to much of the information about it being ad hoc and anecdotal, compiled by sufferers
    trying to make sense of their experience. Indeed, the categorisation of 'syndrome'
    is really a way of saying 'There's this mix of symptoms experienced by different
    people in different combinations that we think might be related to each other
    in some way'. Which is about the status of IBS in terms of scientific understanding."
  created: '2012-09-19 02:17:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>And 55 is the new 45</em>\r\n\r\nAnd metabolic syndrome is the
    new irritable bowel syndrome."
  created: '2012-09-19 02:19:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hi, Bill. Since you're here, this seems as good a place as any to mention
    that the Guardian's latest Sunday series is on Popper:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/sep/10/karl-popper-enemy-uncertainty\">Part
    1</a>\r\n<a href =\"http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2012/sep/17/popper-enemy-uncertainty-virtue-refutation\">Part
    2</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://chronicle.com/article/Separating-the-Pseudo-From/134412/\">This
    article</a> on demarcation of science and pseudo-science is also worth reading,
    and presents some nice challenges to Popper."
  created: '2012-09-19 02:25:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Just started the chronicle article, and saw that author doesn't understand
    Popper, and makes the errors that people regularly do. He doesn't understand is
    that Popper is all about science without certainty, and so he takes lack of certainty
    about refutation as some kind of fatal flaw. Popper wasn't always clear and careful
    about distinguishing between non-science and pseudoscience, but that is a different
    issue...
  created: '2012-09-19 04:02:42'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Well, certainty is for things you know nothing about anyway, right?
  created: '2012-09-19 11:08:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Unless you are talking about "The Uncertainty Principle", then you are just
    a quantum leap away ;-)
  created: '2012-09-19 13:27:33'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I read some theory saying that midlife crisis is started by the end of the
    wife's rerpoductive life:\r\nhttp://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-scientific-fundamentalist/201007/why-do-men-go-through-midlife-crisis"
  created: '2012-09-19 17:35:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\nBefore I followed your link, I had thought that a canon isn't
    a musical <em>instrument</em>, but a musical <em>form</em>:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sB9-kltDu4A\r\n\r\nor,
    for a less facetious example,\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WachC7CN0Y\r\n\r\nexcept
    possibly if one is thinking of this particular composition:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-vQKZFF-9s\r\n\r\nand
    then, of course, the spelling would not be right."
  created: '2012-09-19 18:34:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 1812 overture
  created: '2012-09-19 18:53:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Those are two spectacularly awful versions of Pachelbel's Canon in D, which
    is really saying something considering just how abused this piece of music has
    been since it became part of the modern orchestral and chamber repertoire.\r\n\r\nThank
    heavens for <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MtZjROpBReM\">Musica Antiqua
    K\xF6ln</a>."
  created: '2012-09-19 19:43:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I am all Pachelbeled up for a lifetime, thanks.  Between all the bad versions
    John spoke of and the many times my wife's piano students have played it, I can't
    bear another listen ;-)
  created: '2012-09-19 20:27:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'If you decide to risk one more listen, Chris, I really do recommend that
    MAK version. It is a revelation to many people who have only heard the languid
    romanticised renditions: an auditory window into the baroque world.'
  created: '2012-09-19 20:59:00'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: My momma's so old her birth certificate is in Roman numerals.
  created: '2012-09-19 22:11:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I am so old, I scribed your momma's birth certificate :-)
  created: '2012-09-19 22:54:56'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Im so old, I ran track with dinosaurs.
  created: '2012-09-19 23:13:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: You ran track with me?
  created: '2012-09-19 23:39:28'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "This surely went off topic\u2026\r\n\r\nMy m-lc occurred seven and a half
    years ago and resulted in a divorce, company buy-out, semi-retirement, an addiction
    to tv-series that lasted for years, the restart of my social life, hooking up
    with the love of my life (who died 76 days ago, but that is another story), doing
    things I never imagined I\u2019d do, and a lot more.\r\n\r\nI think m-lc\u2019s
    are okay."
  children:
  - author:
      name: russellm
      picture: 111614
    body: "@ Bert, <cite>.... the love of my life (who died 76 days ago,</cite>\r\n\r\nOh,
      no! Please accept my condolences."
    created: '2012-09-20 20:55:21'
  created: '2012-09-20 01:02:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\nI realized the <em>first</em> version was likely to be \"spectacularly
    awful\", but I thought the <em>second</em> one would be a good contemporary version,
    even if inauthentic.\r\n\r\nI thank you for providing an example of what an actual
    good version sounds like.\r\n\r\nBut then, my musical tastes are rather [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZOKQFjrfbpw|eclectic]]."
  created: '2012-09-20 02:02:12'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/P1000913_500_6373.jpg]\r\n\r\nMe in the
    middle... Kings Royal Yorkers, Light Infantry Coy, circa 1777. Defending America
    from democracy."
  created: '2012-09-20 02:33:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Somewhat to my surprise, I quite enjoyed the harmonic harpsichord rendition
    of the Mission Impossible theme, John. In a similar vein, I offer <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PfK-UzQ48JE">this</a>.
  created: '2012-09-20 06:44:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "When food becomes a theory and not a pleasure, I'm out. When people post
    music they love, I'm in.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-20 17:40:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>When food becomes a theory and not a pleasure, I'm out.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I would be too, but it hardly seems that being selective about what one eats means
    that one gets no pleasure from food.  Indeed, from my perspective, thinking about
    diet and nutrition is primarily a process of determining what constitutes food
    and unfood, so is arguably independent of gustatory considerations. If arsenic
    tasted really good, would you consider it food despite what you know about its
    affect on the body? Would you talk about it in terms of a balanced diet and encourage
    'moderation' as the sole virtue of consumption?\r\n\r\nMost notions of what constitutes
    food are entirely culturally determined, inherited from ancestors who, for the
    most part, had limited options in terms of nutrition and little knowledge about
    the chemical components of what they ate and the affect of these things on this
    bodies. Things that killed them quickly were classified as poisonous, but things
    that killed them slowly frequently made it into the food category because they
    made no association between the consumption of these things and the health problems
    from which they suffered. Today, some of these foods are being consumed in such
    increased quantities and in processed forms that rapidly increase their metabolism
    by the body that things that used to kill people slowly are now killing them quickly.
    They don't call type 2 diabetes 'adult-onset' any more, because too many children
    have it."
  created: '2012-09-20 18:49:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@JohnHudson\u2014\r\n\r\nObviously, you DO believe what you want, despite
    your protestations. Well, you're wrong: if you would like me to sign a HIPAA repease
    so that you can study, weigh, peruse and adjudicate my document weight loss using
    my particular regimen, just let me know. Otherwise, kindly stifle. <em>Capisce?</em>"
  created: '2012-09-20 21:41:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I don\u2019t mind the occasional off topic thread, but I thought I should
    make a quick point. I love the spirit of Typophile and the sense of support and
    community it offers. Happenings as of late are a testament to this. All things
    considered, one might want to be mindful of divulging too much personal information
    (health, family &c.) in a public forum such as this. Miners and profilers can
    use this information, and once it\u2019s out there, it\u2019s out there for good.
    Google or no. I hope all are well."
  created: '2012-09-21 00:15:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>but things that killed them slowly frequently made
    it into the food category because they made no association between the consumption
    of these things and the health problems from which they suffered.</cite>\r\n\r\nA
    lot of the things that are today regarded as things that kill people slowly are
    good sources of calories and proteins. Which make them highly preferable to starvation,
    which kills people quickly.\r\n\r\nAnd which is why we have <em>evolved</em> to
    find foods that taste sweet, or that taste like meat, or which include fat, as
    desirable. Vegetables, on the other hand, tend to taste bitter, and other things
    that taste bitter are poisonous and kill quickly.\r\n\r\nIn the past, it isn't
    just that people were ignorant about nutrition. It is that food - especially meat
    - was scarce, and so regarding it as very important to eat all the meat you could
    was entirely rational from a nutritional standpoint. People tended to be malnourished
    in respect of calories and proteins, while the foods they did have available,
    like turnips and cabbage, provided them with the vitamins they needed.\r\n\r\nToday,
    the abundance of food that we have has turned this upside-down, so our innate
    food preferences, instead of pushing us towards a healthier diet pull us away
    from it.\r\n\r\nBut it isn't a case of random cultural preferences that were never
    related to our bodies' needs.\r\n\r\nOh, also: I had encountered the Ukulele Orchestra
    of Great Britain, and their rendition of the theme from Shaft, before - which,
    I suppose, won't surprise you.\r\n\r\nHowever, most of my musical tastes are more
    conventional, if highly pedestrian. Still, even for that kind of music, I do sometimes
    go a little [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P37JbBnJIaY|out of the way]] (Onna
    Jonka Annoin Pois, as sung by Eila Pellinen; from the late 'fifties, but in a
    style reminiscent of an earlier time than that - a jazz/torch song about the love
    she let get away) and I also brave [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UcR3K6mVctw|deadly
    earworms]] (this is reputed to be one of the worst, Walter Wanderley's Hammond
    organ rendition of \"Summer Samba\", also known as \"So Nice\" or \"Samba de Ver\xE3o\")."
  created: '2012-09-21 01:22:55'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Eat what you want, do what you want, listen to the music that you want. If
    eating meat makes you feel bad, stop. It's simple hedonic calculus. If you like
    to drink booze, go for it, one day you might find that the hangover is not worth
    it or you did things that were unacceptable. Then don't drink like that anymore.
    Hedonic calculus. A technical term for something that can only be done by feel.
    Obtain joy and pleasure while you can because whatever scheme has been concocted
    cannot alter the fact that there is one certainty at the end of this journey.
    And when the time comes it should be welcomed, not feared, more importantly, it
    should not be feared now.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-21 03:38:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John: <em>A lot of the things that are today regarded as things that kill
    people slowly are good sources of calories and proteins. Which make them highly
    preferable to starvation, which kills people quickly.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich is exactly
    why I wrote that we inherit our categories of food from ancestors who, for the
    most part, <em>had limited options in terms of nutrition.</em> This is not the
    situation that most of us in the west are now in, so it seems to me entirely reasonable
    to take a look at what we eat in terms of long term health affects rather than
    as if we were in risk of immediate starvation and needing whatever calories and
    nutrients come to hand. And, again, that means actually looking at the evidence
    and reading the science, not just uncritically accepting what your ancestors,
    a government 'healthy eating guide', or a nutritionist tells you.\r\n\r\nYou mention
    evolution, and I think that can't pass without comment. Genetically, humans are
    in no way significantly different than we were c. 66,000 years ago (the most precisely
    stated short estimation I've found, more general estimations tend to be longer).
    What this means in nutritional terms is that our digestive systems and the way
    we make use of different kinds of fuel evolved before many of the staples of our
    civilisational diets were part of what we ate. Agriculture dates from approximately
    12,000 years ago, so whatever else we can say about the nutritional value of annual
    grains, cultivated legumes, or fruit bred for sweetness, we cannot say that we
    evolved to eat them.\r\n\r\nWhen palaeontologists examine ancient human remains,
    one of the things they can determine pretty much immediately is whether they are
    from palaeolithic or neolithic cultures, because the neolithic skeletons will
    on average be several inches shorter than the palaeolithic, and will exhibit tooth
    decay, scoliosis and degenerative bone problems, and other indicators of poorer
    physical health. And the defining difference between the palaeolithic and the
    neolithic is the change from a hunter gatherer diet to an agricultural diet, from
    eating meat, fish and wild vegetation to eating large amounts of grains and cultivated
    legumes. And exactly the same kinds of health issues have been documented among
    living populations making the transition from traditional diets to modern civilisational
    diets as recently as the 20th Century."
  created: '2012-09-21 03:58:07'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@John Hudson\u2014\r\n\r\nSorry, bucko: bread and water is all that is required
    to sustain life. All else is window dressing.\r\n\r\nGiven the sorry state of
    world affairs, a fairly strong case could be made that we humans greatly overestimate
    the value of larger brains, especially brains so well versed in fooling themselves.
    You, sir, are a master of self-delusion: keep up the good work."
  created: '2012-09-21 07:42:58'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "...so for mid-lifers it's about quality rather than quantity?\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-09-21 07:49:24'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "<cite>Sorry, bucko: bread and water is all that is required to sustain life.
    All else is window dressing</cite>\r\n\r\nHorsesh*t. Vitamin C deficiency would
    finish you off in the form of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scurvy\">Scurvy</a>"
  created: '2012-09-21 09:36:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Interesting theory Ol' Nick. \r\n\r\n@ John Hudson... Yet, strangly, members
    of modern-day hunter gatherer societies be shorter & less well nourished than
    bread eaters... Excepting those on strict bread and water diets. \r\n\r\n@ Cris
    G <cite>scurvy</cite>\r\nAh yes. Scurvy... "
  created: '2012-09-21 17:16:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, while we clearly disagree, I don't think I have ever been anything other
    than polite to you.
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: 'Polite? Oh, yes, indeed. The whole lot of you are very well-behaved: it
      is as Your Master wishes.'
    created: '2012-09-21 22:22:40'
  created: '2012-09-21 19:07:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Paul, your notion of 'hedonic calculus' is problematic in a number of ways.
    It seems an attractively simple means of responding to physical sensations that
    are of immediate or short term association with particular actions, but even then
    it treats as certainty what can easily be coincidental correlation. Take my initial
    exchange with Chris regarding eating meat: if someone notes that they get a stomach
    ache when they eat red meat, following hedonic calculus they decide to stop eating
    red meat, and the effect of this might be that they stop getting stomach aches.
    But that doesn't mean that red meat caused the stomach ache, or it might be only
    a proximate cause, while the root cause -- e.g. enzyme depletion or bowel perforation
    -- might continue <em>unfelt</em>. And here is the biggest problem with hedonic
    calculus: it relies on immediate or short term correlation of physical sensation
    to particular actions -- eating this or drinking that, in some particular quantity
    and/or some particular preparation --, so is completely useless as a means of
    determining what constitutes good or bad actions with regard to long term health.
    You give the example of someone who decides to stop drinking, or stop drinking
    so much, because one day he decides that the hangover isn't worth it or that drunkenness
    has resulted in him doing something unacceptable that he regrets. Neither the
    pleasure he used to get from drinking to excess nor the hangover tell him anything
    useful about the state of his liver, and by the time he <em>feels</em> physical
    sensations related to liver damage the damage has been done.\r\n\r\nYou define
    hedonic calculus as 'a technical term for something that can only be done by feel'.
    But eating with an eye to long term health is <em>not</em> something that can
    only be done by feel.\r\n\r\nNow, if you simply want to say that you don't care
    about long term health, and are happy to accept any consequence at all of what
    you eat and drink, that's your prerogative. I'm no puritan. What I am saying,
    though, is that if one is concerned with long term health in terms of diet and
    nutrition, then one has to take an evidence-based approach. Ad hoc and anecdotal
    feedback, including how you feel, can be useful in gauging the effectiveness of
    particular diet and nutrition choices, especially when related to objective measures
    such as blood pressure, blood sugar levels, body fat percentage and (less usefully,
    at least in isolation) body mass index. But unless you plan to experiment in a
    hedonic way with every possible way of eating, you have to start from a set of
    principles arrived at from evidence, which means looking at the science and looking
    at it critically."
  created: '2012-09-21 22:24:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>Horsesh*t. Vitamin C deficiency would finish you off in the form
    of Scurvy.</em>\r\n\r\nIf he's eating nut breads, he'll get Vitamin C, and there
    is even a small amount in flax seed. So my money would be on the total absence
    of Vitamin B12 finishing him off. Unlike most other vitamins, B12 is only available
    naturally from animal sources, and deficiency is associated with a whole raft
    of both physical and mental pathologies."
  created: '2012-09-21 22:30:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm very well-behaved?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: "Okay: there ARE exceptions to every rule.\r\n\r\nBTW, I got a note from
      a new designer, just trying to break into Arabic script design, who wanted to
      know if Monotype's \"We'll Take Seventy-five Percent\" deal was any good. Naturally,
      I thought not.\r\n\r\nAs ye sow, so shall ye reap, sheep\u2026"
    created: '2012-09-22 00:38:17'
  created: '2012-09-22 00:03:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "<cite>Paul, your notion of 'hedonic calculus' is problematic in a number
    of ways.</cite>\r\n\r\nExistence is problematic in a number of ways. That's how
    this thread got started. If you have a scientific answer for that please do tell.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-22 01:31:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\nI wasn't disagreeing with you on the merits of using our
    nutritional knowledge to eat in a more healthy fashion. It was just that I wanted
    to point out that limited options were more important than a lack of knowledge.\r\n\r\nBut
    I will reply to this:\r\n\r\n<cite>And the defining difference between the palaeolithic
    and the neolithic is the change from a hunter gatherer diet to an agricultural
    diet, from eating meat, fish and wild vegetation to eating large amounts of grains
    and cultivated legumes.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that poor diet is not the only contributor
    to the poorer health of agricultural populations. 16 hours a day of back-breaking
    labor to feed yourself plays a bigger part."
  created: '2012-09-22 03:00:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John: <em>I think that poor diet is not the only contributor to the poorer
    health of agricultural populations. 16 hours a day of back-breaking labor to feed
    yourself plays a bigger part.</em>\r\n\r\nNo disagreement there. Really, who in
    the heck thought that agriculture was a good idea?"
  created: '2012-09-22 03:19:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Russell: <em>Yet, strangly, members of modern-day hunter gatherer societies
    be shorter & less well nourished than bread eaters</em>\r\n\r\nWhich hunter gatherer
    societies are you talking about? Do you have comparative height data? Do a Google
    image search for hunter gatherers, and what you will see is lots of photos from
    around the world of the classic hunter gatherer physique: long and lean and well
    muscled with very upright posture, all indicative of excellent bone health and
    good protein levels.\r\n\r\nThe increase in height among modern westerners is
    a phenomenon of the past hundred years or so, during which time we have <em>regained</em>
    a lot of height that our ancestors lost for thousands of years. That is, we're
    back to a similar height as our palaeolithic ancestors were. There's no doubt
    that the abundance of food we have access to, especially regular protein, has
    had a great epigenetic benefit in terms of height in many western countries. Conversely,
    hunter gatherer societies today are subject to modern pressures that affect their
    access to nutrition: constriction of their traditional roaming territories by
    agriculture and forestry, destruction of wetlands, forced relocation, pollution,
    etc.. Yet despite that, they remain taller and fitter than their near neighbours
    who are working the land and living on beans and rice and corn and bread. For
    modern westerners and hunter gatherers the same is true: access to regular meat
    protein makes you taller."
  created: '2012-09-22 03:21:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Obviously people who wanted to control more people.\r\n\r\nYou can't get
    filthy rich by moving around all the time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 03:47:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Really, who in the heck thought that agriculture was a good idea?\"\r\n\r\nAll
    the people who would have starved otherwise."
  created: '2012-09-22 04:38:45'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>No disagreement there. Really, who in the heck thought that agriculture
    was a good idea?</cite>\r\nNo kidding! Nothing but trouble when those Germanic
    folks learned to farm, had a population explosion and pushed into Roman territories.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 05:02:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Cain slew Abel. On that John, we are in agreement.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 05:48:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're Canadian, aren't you. Either that or Australian.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 05:56:20'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "anyone can go back to a subsistence hunter-gatherer life at anytime. I am
    sure it is not all that complicated. There are berries in every thicket, edible
    roots are everywhere. They grow like weeds. Heck they are weeds... Dandelions,
    burdock. Small animals are easy to catch - with a bit of perseverance. Probably.
    \r\n\r\nIt may seem like there are a lot of dandelions in your yard, but you'll
    get a few meals out of them at best before you have to move on to your neighbour's
    yard. \r\n\r\nThe thing is, if you do that, that is all you'll ever have time
    to do. The evils of bread & rice may be the price we pay for culture as we know
    it. \r\n\r\n:o)"
  created: '2012-09-22 06:02:58'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I am a citizen of Earth, Hrant. Why?\r\n\r\nOk. I'm Canajun, eh. I'd have
    thought the photo above would be a tip-off... There were never any American intransigents
    to quell in Australia.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 06:16:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Serves me right for thinking I could get away without using a smiley.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 06:36:39'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "This moment I feel the prolonged drone of existence.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-22 07:48:17'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't trust anyone who's goal it is to be in charge of me. I trust my fellow
    citizens more than I trust the people in charge. Call me crazy.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-22 07:55:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "How\u2019s this for a sig? Longer is better, right? #welcometothe90\u2019s\r\n\r\nC\r\nT\r\nD"
  created: '2012-09-22 08:22:00'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Considering my fellow citizens are the people in charge\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-22 08:28:45'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, Paul\u2014\r\n\r\n<em>Theoretically,</em> \u201Cyour fellow citizens\u201D
    are in charge; however, practically speaking, no: Money rules, and all but a brave\u2014or
    foolish\u2014few obey Money's commands.\r\n\r\nAnd, yes: you are crazy. Simply
    remember that there <strong>is</strong> such a thing as crazy good\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-22 10:55:26'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OLWZv69n3c0
  created: '2012-09-22 11:49:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Crazy? No: not probably. Definitely.\r\n\r\nAnd so much Helvetica? Really?
    Are we all Post-Postmodern now?"
  created: '2012-09-22 15:00:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Nope. Meso-Holocene.\r\n\r\nOh, and @oldnick, pray have your home checked
    for fungal spores, just in case they are driving you lot the wrong kind of crazy.
    That's too unfunny and uncute to let go unchecked."
  created: '2012-09-22 15:16:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>Really, who in the heck thought that agriculture was
    a good idea?</cite>\r\n\r\nI blame women. They just couldn't take it when their
    babies kept dying as a result of unreliable food supplies.\r\n\r\nAnd, of course,
    without agriculture, we wouldn't have civilization; without civilization, we wouldn't
    have written language, and without written language we would not have typography.\r\n\r\nAgriculture
    did indeed lead to our ancestors suffering through millenia of toil and tyranny.
    But it made the societies that practiced it militarily stronger than those which
    did not, and so it spread as the result of the way things happen rather than any
    considered human choice. (cf. <em>The Parable of the Tribes</em> by Andrew Bard
    Schmookler)\r\n\r\nWe cannot change the past, but we can make use of the technologies
    we have now, the upside of agriculture, to bring about a world with a decent life
    for every human being."
  created: '2012-09-22 16:38:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hear, hear.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 16:55:44'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>[Agriculture] made the societies that practiced it militarily
    stronger than those which did not</blockquote>\r\nGo tell it to Gengis Khan.\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 17:28:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Russell: <em>anyone can go back to a subsistence hunter-gatherer life at
    anytime ... The thing is, if you do that, that is all you'll ever have time to
    do.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain I have to ask what data you have to back up this assertion,
    which like your previous one re height is contrary to everything I've read that
    anthropologists and palaeontologists have concluded about hunter gatherer societies.
    Even in the relatively harsh climate of the modern Kalahari, hunter gatherers
    are observed to spend on average three hours per day obtaining food, which is
    in effect the only 'work' they do.\r\n\r\nAnd it is not the case that 'anyone'
    can resume a hunter gatherer life today. Agriculture drives population expansion,
    requires immense amounts of water and land, and when combined with industrialisation
    encourages the centralisation of distribution in cities. I already mentioned the
    pressures on hunter gatherer populations from destruction of wetlands, forestry
    and pasture land appropriation for agriculture. Simply put, we're now bound to
    farming. [That said, there are different models of farming, <a href=\"http://www.polyfacefarms.com/\">including
    some that preserve wetlands and pasture lands</a>.]\r\n\r\nI'm fortunate to live
    in what is one of the most abundant natural habitats on the planet, a place where
    native hunter gatherer societies were able to adopt some of the things that we
    otherwise associate with agricultural civilisation (among them, slavery) simply
    because there was so much year-round plenty that they enjoyed something like a
    surplus economy. From July to November, I eat some form of wild berry or another
    every day, simply by walking out my front door and picking them off the bushes.
    But wild game is as difficult to come by here as anywhere else with even low modern
    densities: hunting can only be done on private land and regulations define the
    distance one must be from a house or other human inhabited structure."
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: "@John Hudson\u2014\r\n\r\nAgriculture does not <em>drive</em> anything;
      humans choose to do mischief with excess; cf. Josef Pieper. And, you are, indeed,
      fortunate, even if you can't kill other living things easily and handily from
      your back porch. <em>Quel dommage\u2026</em>"
    created: '2012-09-22 20:15:10'
  created: '2012-09-22 18:57:51'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "The USDA last week made a minor non-binding recommendation. In its inter-office
    newsletter to agency employees, it suggested that those who want to conserve water
    could simply refrain from eating meat on Mondays.\r\n\tThe idea is part of the
    worldwide \u201CMeatless Monday\u201D campaign, which the New York Times notes
    is backed by \u201Cthousands of corporate cafeterias, restaurants and schools.\u201D
    [No doctors!] In the face of a drought, it\u2019s a pragmatic notion. Cornell
    University researchers estimate that \u201Cproducing a pound of animal protein
    requires, on average, about 100 times more water than producing a pound of vegetable
    protein.\u201D \r\n--David Sirota, Salon, August 3, 2012\r\n\r\nSince Chris posted
    a link to the \"Make my logo bigger\" <em>song,</em> here's one to [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgcX0y1Nzhs|\"Make
    my logo bigger\" <em>cream.</em>]]"
  created: '2012-09-22 21:33:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "That\u2019s so funny I\u2019m in tears and I\u2019m only 2 mins in. Thanks
    or the morning laugh. Definitely going to share that one."
  created: '2012-09-22 21:58:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@riccard0:\r\n<cite>Go tell it to Gengis Khan.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, there was
    <em>one</em> notable exception in history. But it wasn't just the Victorian Era
    colonial empires, or Spain, France, and England in the new world that ran roughshod
    over indigenous people.\r\n\r\nAncient Egypt and Babylon grew by conquering neighboring
    indigenous people. Ancient Rome conquered many barbarians in addition to other
    civilized societies."
  created: '2012-09-22 22:35:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "And the Egyptians and Babylonians had made fine use of Agriculture.\r\nI
    guess I am having great trouble with John's insistence of Hunter-gatherer tribes
    as the only way to go.  It is a bit My-way-or-the-highway thinking.  Those who
    lived by a friendly sea fished;those who had little access to enough wildlife
    farmed; most had a mixed bag of \"Eat whatever you have available at the time\"."
  created: '2012-09-22 22:59:29'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>Ancient Rome conquered many barbarians</blockquote>\r\nAnd then
    was conquered back by barbarians ;-)\r\nOne pattern I see is that usually the
    <em>less</em> civilised conquer the more civilised, then absorb/adopt the conquered
    culture. Dorics and Ionics, Romans and Greeks, Mongolians and Chinese, etc."
  created: '2012-09-22 23:25:28'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> The USDA last week made a minor non-binding \r\n> recommendation... refrain
    from eating meat on Mondays.\r\n\r\nThe USDA retracted the recommendation after
    protests from livestock producers and at least one member of congress. \u201CU.S.D.A.
    does not endorse Meatless Monday,\u201D a spokeswoman said in a statement, and
    she said the recommendation \u201Cwas posted without proper clearance.\u201D \r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/26/us/usda-newsletter-retracts-a-meatless-mondays-plug.html\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-23 00:22:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If only the human livestock had a powerful lobby behind it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-23 00:27:45'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "For Gengis Khan it was pasture land for their herds of horses, cattle and
    sheep they were after.... The old ranchers VS farmers fight. At least to start
    with.\r\n\r\n@ Hrant\r\n\r\nLikewise :o)\r\n\r\n@ quadibloc ,\r\n\r\nAgriculture
    spread because people who practice it multiply faster. They have food to support
    larger families and (collectively if not individually) food to put away for lean
    times, food to trade for cool stuff and time to spend thinking about and doing
    things other than farming."
  created: '2012-09-23 01:21:44'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: ">The USDA retracted the recommendation after protests from livestock producers
    and at least one member of congress. [Thanks for the heads-up.]\r\n\r\nThe recommendation
    was based on sound reason. The retraction was based on politics."
  created: '2012-09-23 02:11:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The retraction was based on politics.\"\r\n\r\nas usual for Washington."
  created: '2012-09-23 03:09:21'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Mid is far too timid a descriptor for this crisis.\r\n\r\nThis is fun, visiting
    other existential disaster areas.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-23 11:04:14'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "Who would've thought that I would someday read an article about diets and
    think of Typophile? Ha. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/23/opinion/sunday/the-optimal-diet.html"
  created: '2012-09-23 17:58:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ John. The world is full of data and it's often just a click away. Data
    multiplies like farmers in a good crop year. But time does not. You can accept
    or reject what every you like.  \r\n\r\nTalk of the wholesome life of our hunter
    and gather ancestors is often overly sentimental and, I'd suggest a some what
    fanciful interpretation of what little is known. People have always been people,
    both good and bad. In any event, that was then. This is now. we aren't going back
    there any time soon - unless we screw things up very, very badly.\r\n\r\nThe conversation
    about a sustainable food supply today with today's population is a different one. "
  created: '2012-09-23 18:21:35'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: 'National food inspection agencies like the USDA and the CFIA (the Canadian
    equivalent) are effectively branches of the food industry and are more concerned
    with keeping regulations from hurting the profits of Cargil, Monsanto, General
    Mills... and the rest of them than with actual food safety. '
  created: '2012-09-23 20:23:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "How\u2019s this for a fad diet? \u201CThe Helvetica Diet.\u201D Only eat
    food that has labels set in Helvetica. There\u2019s got to be enough stupid North
    Americans out there to jump on that bandwagon\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-24 03:08:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't know if you visited a Safeway during the 80s but all the packaging
    for their generic items was the same. Yellow with black type. There was one on
    Vine and Melrose that had an entire aisle of generic products like dog food, baked
    beans, beer, you name it. All yellow and black. One of many aesthetic crises.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/generic-products_4833.jpg]\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-09-24 07:06:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alphabets_can_ingredients_5846.jpg]\r\n\r\nNote
    the 3rd ingredient. I took these shots ~2 years ago."
  created: '2012-09-24 08:43:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alphabets_can_5239.jpg]'
  created: '2012-09-24 08:43:04'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\u2026 And Just like that,   Paul and  Christopher  bring it all back to
    Type.\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n@ Paul\u2026 Thanks to the <a href=http://www.canadiandesignresource.ca/officialgallery/packaging/no-name-graphics>Don
    Watt Group</a>, No Name branding for Lawblaws & Weston Foods house brands\u2026
    In the eighties they virtually owned yellow and black.  (not to mention Helvetica
    set way too tight) \r\n"
  created: '2012-09-25 01:54:11'
date: '2012-09-16 05:46:28'
node_type: forum
title: Can you say mid-life crisis?

---
