---
author:
  name: Brian Dyer
  picture: 125634
body: I'm a Graphic Designer, and I absolutely HATE being stuck with having to create
  Vector artwork from a scanned copy of a logo on letterhead paper.  To make it worse,
  it was a scanned copy of a copy.  My customer has no idea what the name of the fonts
  used in this logo are.  I know I've seen these fonts before, but I just can't seem
  to locate it!  I've already re-designed the "logo" part, now I just need to re-type
  the wording and be done with it!  Any ideas??  Any help is greatly appreciated!!!![img:sites/default/files/old-images/Majestic_4710.jpg]
comments:
- author:
    name: skyfein
    picture: 111814
  body: Trajan, Gill Sans (both stretched)
  children:
  - author:
      name: Brian Dyer
      picture: 125634
    body: .
    created: '2012-09-19 14:49:18'
  created: '2012-09-19 05:24:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: You're a Graphic Designer who doesn't know Gill Sans or Trajan?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Brian Dyer
      picture: 125634
    body: 'Nick Cooke.....I''m sorry, I had no idea that Graphic Designers should
      know all 100,000 + font names, looks, etc.  FYI - I''m a VECTOR based Graphic
      Artist, I don''t do a lot of work that consists of font types!!  Thanks for
      your input though, very helpful! lol '
    created: '2012-09-19 14:49:49'
  created: '2012-09-19 07:52:54'
- author:
    name: Brian Dyer
    picture: 125634
  body: "Skyfein.....thank you so much!  I knew it, I just couldn't get my fingers
    wrapped around it!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-19 14:48:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: I'm sorry Brian, I just naturally assumed that most Graphic Designers would
    have a rudimentary knowledge of one of the main tools of the trade like a mechanic
    would be familiar with a spanner.
  created: '2012-09-19 14:55:27'
- author:
    name: skyfein
    picture: 111814
  body: "Nick, that was my first reaction, as well!\r\n\r\nBut then I reminded myself
    that no one -- not even me -- was born knowing the curves of Gill Sans. We were
    completely ignorant of it for our entire lives, then we learned it. There was
    one particular day, one moment, when we learned it.\r\n\r\nFor bdyer, that day
    was yesterday.\r\n\r\nIt's no crime to be an aspiring graphic designer, and to
    want to learn, as she (or he) obviously does.\r\n\r\nMy two cents."
  created: '2012-09-19 16:49:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: I'm a vector based graphic designer too Brian - I design typefaces. Maybe
    I'm just too wrapped up in typefaces that I forgot about the people who don't
    use them that often.
  created: '2012-09-19 17:02:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Brian, type is the bones of graphic design.\r\n\r\nhttp://typographica.org/on-typography/a-fruitful-discomfort-the-face-of-the-2012-olympics/#comment-44710\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-19 20:08:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'What''s a ''vector based'' graphic designer? That sounds like a ''hammer
    based'' carpenter. Sometimes a screwdriver can be useful, too. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: Brian Dyer
      picture: 125634
    body: "@aluminum (and all others):\r\n\r\nOk, I didn't post my question so I could
      get ridiculed for asking a simple question.  I understand, some people take
      extreme pride in their trade, and feel better about themselves by making another
      person feel like they are \"less\" than they are for not knowing something as
      simple as Trajan, or Gill Sans font.  Please, allow me to recap on exactly what
      I do, cause maybe \"Graphic Designer\" might be the wrong name:\r\n\r\nBasically,
      I take other peoples logos, when they do NOT have a vector file (.eps, .ai,
      .cdr) and I re-create their logos for them.  In turn, my \"re-created\" vector
      artwork get's sent to a Sign Company so they can fabricate electrical signs
      for their business, which in turn get's mounted on the outside of their building
      (Channel Letters, Reverse Channel, Light Boxes).  You'd be surprised at how
      many people have a logo for their business, but can only seem to get a copy
      of a 72dpi JPEG of it.  Personally, when I design a logo for someone, I send
      them a copy of it in every format possible.  (.ai, .eps, .pdf, .tif, .jpeg)
      \ Basically, I do ALL of my work in Illustrator.  Depending on the quality of
      the bitmap image I receive, I can usually just trace it then clean it up in
      Illustrator.  Most of the time, I DO know the name of the font, or I can find
      it very quickly, but for whatever reason, on this one.......I had trouble.  With
      the work I do, and the Sign Companies I work with, ALL artwork needs to be vector
      art.  Whether it's cutting 3-D lettering with acrylic, or vinyl lettering on
      your vehicle, or electrical signs, ALL art needs to be vector.  That's what
      I do for the most part!\r\n\r\nIn addition to that, yes, I also do logo designs,
      flyers, brochures, restaurant menus, etc.  Obviously, when I'm creating my own
      artwork from scratch, then finding the right type face to use is never a problem,
      since IM the designer.\r\n\r\nDo I sometimes have problems with \"identifying\"
      certain fonts when I need to re-create something?  Sure I do!!  But I'm always
      open to LEARNING, hence the reason for joining this forum!!\r\n\r\nBrian"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Brian Dyer
        picture: 125634
      body: "@ Christopher:\r\n\r\nI took your advice, and changed my screen name!
        LOL  Thanks again!"
      created: '2012-09-19 21:50:38'
    created: '2012-09-19 21:37:55'
  created: '2012-09-19 20:24:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@bdyer23: Welcome to Typophile. \r\n\r\nIn just one post, you\u2019ve probably
    already noticed there are some\u2026 interesting\u2026 folks here. It only gets
    better. A few tips: I recommend using your real name as your screen name. It used
    to be somewhat of a convention, and it has been my experience that you get a little
    more street cred for doing so. Also, in the practice of typography (no, we\u2019re
    not getting into an endless circular debate about what typography is) , ID\u2019ing
    fonts is something typographers tend to pride themselves on. \r\n\r\nAnd there\u2019s
    a bit of a trick: Many alphabets have particularly unique characters. Spot that
    character, and you know the typeface. For example, in Gill Sans, the tail on the
    lowercase [a] is a dead give away (check out the top of the bold [t] while you\u2019re
    at it). In Trajan Roman, the way in which the capital [J] descends below the baseline
    is also a tell. In addition, these are two <em>incredibly</em> popular fonts,
    and have been for around for decades. I can say with complete confidence Gill
    Sans is in 90% of typographers \u201Cif I only had 10\u201D list. Trajan used
    to be popular, but somehow <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t87QKdOJNv8\">it
    got co-opted by movie-land</a>. A shame.\r\n\r\nIf you are interested in looking
    at the details of typefaces to help you play \u201Cname that font\u201D I recommend
    getting a big paper book with the entire alphabet printed out so you can look
    at the aspects of individual characters. It has been my experience that many type
    designers put extra work into the [a] and [g] glyphs (characters) so I usually
    make an effort to inspect them more closely.\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s also a ton of
    digital ID services out there, but I\u2019m a grump old man that likes paper.
    However, as time goes on, and more and more typefaces are churned out every year
    (unnecessarily IMO) playing \u201Cname that font\u201D is getting harder and harder
    to win. However, it still feels good to do it from memory.\r\n\r\n@aluminum: \u201CHammer
    based\u201D. Good one <strong><a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otCpCn0l4Wo\">;)</a></strong> "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Brian Dyer
      picture: 125634
    body: "@ Christopher Dean:\r\n\r\nThank you greatly for sharing your input, I
      appreciate people who comment with helpful advice, that I can use for future
      reference.  Thanks again.\r\n\r\nBrian"
    created: '2012-09-19 21:39:42'
  created: '2012-09-19 21:06:00'
- author:
    name: skyfein
    picture: 111814
  body: Brian, rock on!!
  created: '2012-09-19 21:43:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's good you're open to learning (everybody should be). The thing is, somebody
    in your line of work should have run into Trajan and Gill a hundred times by now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Brian Dyer
      picture: 125634
    body: "hrant:\r\n\r\nI have, and that's why it drove me crazy!!  I knew that I
      KNEW the names, I just couldn't get my brain wrapped around it!  Funny thing
      is, once I saw the names of the fonts, I said to myself \"Aww, thats it!!!\".
      \ Even funnier, I obviously had both fonts on my Mac already, I just overlooked
      them.  Needless to say, I guess it was just one those \"blank\" moments in my
      brain, and I just couldn't remember the name.  Oh well, glad the problem is
      solved now!"
    created: '2012-09-19 22:16:26'
  created: '2012-09-19 22:12:22'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "At any rate: No need to go on the defensive because of some snide remark
    the intention of which isn\u2019t quite clear to me (if we exclude the unpleasant
    possibility that it was just intended to make its author look clever and you stupid).
    The Type ID board is there for typeface identification; it\u2019s fine to ask
    for obscure typefaces to be identified, it\u2019s fine to ask for Arial, Gill
    Sans or Trajan. This at least is my stance and I\u2019d be happy, just like probably
    most other members of this community, to help you out next time, regardless of
    the typeface you need the name of."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Brian Dyer
      picture: 125634
    body: "R:\r\n\r\nThanks, I greatly appreciate it!"
    created: '2012-09-19 23:01:17'
  created: '2012-09-19 22:31:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think it's pretty clear that Nick got miffed that somebody calling himself
    a \"Graphic Designer\" cannot recognize Trajan and Gill Sans. Shooting for a high
    standard (which this really isn't even) is a good thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-19 23:50:28'
- author:
    name: skyfein
    picture: 111814
  body: "We get it. \r\n\r\nBut when you say \"high standard,\" you mean for people
    visiting this board? And if they don't meet your standard, they should be scolded?
    Or somehow made to feel inferior, or otherwise embarassed?\r\n\r\nWho is served
    by that? Who is helped?\r\n\r\nThis is not an accrediting body for the practice
    of typography, graphic design, or anything else. It is a type I.D. board open
    to all humanity regardless of vocation or level of expertise. The purpose is helping
    people, not scolding them for asking their question in the first place."
  created: '2012-09-20 00:04:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, just a \"high standard\" in general, like what you call yourself. Nothing
    to do with this forum, or even typefaces.\r\n\r\nAnyway, focusing on the positive:
    if Brian takes away an appreciation that type isn't just a side-show in graphic
    design, then everybody wins.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-20 01:35:56'
- author:
    name: Brian Dyer
    picture: 125634
  body: "Oh dear, I only asked a very simple basic question........and look what I've
    started!  What a great \"welcome\" I get to this forum! LOL j/k  Anyways, in all
    honesty, I think I'll try a little harder next time before I ask another typeface
    question.  :-)   Wow oh wow....\r\n\r\nSkyfein.....thank you!  And everybody else
    on here who truly HELPED me and not just tried to belittle my lack of knowledge
    on font types."
  created: '2012-09-20 01:43:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\u201CGive me a fish and I eat for a day. Teach me to fish and I eat for
    a lifetime.\u201D\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-20 02:21:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "It was the initial CAPS job title that slightly irked me.\r\n\r\nI'll keep
    my mouth shut in future. :^\\\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-20 17:56:16'
- author:
    name: skyfein
    picture: 111814
  body: I certainly hope you don't!
  created: '2012-09-20 17:57:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Also, welcome to the site, Brian. A tip: a little thicker skin can go a long
    way in here. It''s full of mostly good people, albeit highly opinionated good
    people. ;)'
  created: '2012-09-20 19:50:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"somebody in your line of work should have run into Trajan and Gill \"\r\n\r\nTo
    be fair to Brian, it sounds like a lot of his time is spent in the 'sign industry'
    which I don't really consider to be a part of the design industry. \r\n\r\nAt
    least not anymore. Seems that most signage shops put the absolute minimal investment
    into the actual visual design part of the process and you tend to see a lot of
    off-brand and knock of type out there. A signage shop using an actual cut of Gill
    Sans might be rare. ;)\r\n\r\nThis post was really just an excuse to repost the
    classic sign rant from Draplin:\r\n\r\n\"Why America is F*cked\"\r\n\r\nhttp://vimeo.com/1465284\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-20 19:50:38'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Brian: \u201C\u2026<em>it was just one those \"blank\" moments in my brain</em>\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    like to call those \u201Cweek-days\u201D  ;)"
  created: '2012-09-21 00:25:44'
- author:
    name: Brian Dyer
    picture: 125634
  body: "Wow, so where do I start.........\r\n\r\n@Aluminum:\r\nI find it quite strange
    that YOU call yourself a \"Web Designer\" yet you can't seem to find the time
    to develop your very own website!  Your link simply takes you to a page which
    states \"I know, I know...not much here. Sorry. I'll get to it soon!\"  Really?
    \ Wow, that is just so professional Darrel, I would want you to design my website
    once I saw a page like that.  It would make me think that you would put plenty
    of time into my site, ya know, since you put so much time into your very own site!\r\n\r\nNow
    moving forward..........did you push a little button regarding the statement of
    \"sign industry\" not being a part of the \"design industry\".  Oh yeah, I guess
    you did.  Let me explain something to you (and all other graphic designers).  Throughout
    my 8+ years in the Sign Industry, I have dealt with TONS of Graphic Designers
    who know absolutely NOTHING about the signage industry.  They can't seem to grasp
    the fact that their \"design\" needs to be fabricated into a sign.  I'm not talking
    about little vinyl signs, or \"light box\" signs like the one shown in the video
    from Draplin.  I'm referring to 3 dimensional Channel Letter signs, Pylon signs,
    Monument signs, etc.  I've seen a lot of great work from designers sending me
    their clients artwork for their business identification sign, problem is.......their
    design only looks great on paper, stationary, websites, etc.  Their design would
    look like complete shit trying to fabricate it into 36\" letters, with a 1/2\"
    stroke.  Just an example.  There is so much that goes into \"designing\" a sign,
    that your average Graphic Designer does not have a CLUE.  There are stroke width
    requirements, remember.....you need to fit LED's and conduit throughout the letters.
    \ Lets not forget about the fact that the sign needs to be legible from far distances.
    \ We've fabricated so many signs according to our clients \"Graphic Designers\"
    suggestion.  Guess what always seems to happen?  Yeah, the customer comes back
    AFTER fabrication and installation are complete and says \"I don't like my sign,
    I can't even read it from the street\"  Really??  Did I not TELL YOU that would
    happen?  Again, I've seen a lot of great work from other designers, but a majority
    of them who know nothing about the sign industry, make for a pretty shitty designer
    when it comes to the sign industry.\r\n\r\nIn regards to Draplins comment in the
    video about \"shitty design\" with a $15,000 invoice.  Let me explain to you:
    \ when the sign industry supplies an estimate for a $5,000+ sign, they do not
    charge for the \"design\" aspect of it.  It's usually included into the cost of
    permitting, and Engineering. However, let me explain what IS involved in the \"design\"
    aspect of the sign:\r\n\r\n1.  Making sure that your sign meets all city & county
    code requirements.\r\n2. Making sure your design is legible by cars driving 30mph
    + past the location.\r\n3. Working with your structural Engineer to make sure
    the sign will meet all FBC, NEC, and county wind load requirements.\r\n4. KNOWING
    all the FBC codes in each municipality in which the sign will be installed. (Florida
    Building Code)\r\n5. Having your crew do a complete survey of the property to
    determine everything about the structure of the building where the sign will be
    installed, prior to producing the drawing for the Engineer.\r\n6.  Designing all
    the architectural  drawings that are required by the city, and your Engineer.\r\n\r\nLet
    me also add:  when \"designing\" a sign.  You can't just design whatever you so
    choose!!!  Yeah, that's part of meeting all \"city & county\" requirements.  EVERY
    shopping plaza, and most landlords at free standing buildings, have a WRITTEN
    SIGN CRITERIA for ALL designers to abide by.  Some of them call for \"block lettering\",
    certain font types, colors, etc.  You are usually pretty limited on how \"complex\"
    you can make your design.  \r\n\r\nTrust me Darrel........you obviously have NO
    IDEA (or Draplin) what is involved when designing a sign.\r\n\r\nLet me close
    with this:\r\nThere is a reason WHY I stay very busy in working with multiple
    sign companies in the South Florida area.  I would say it's because I'm an excellent
    SIGN DESIGNER who has extensive knowledge in the industry, knowledge of ALL the
    different FBC and Square Footage criterias in the Tri-County area (20+ municipalities).
    \ I work with Sign Companies who have their own Graphic Designers, yet......they
    hire ME to design the Monument Signs, the Channel Letter signs, the Pylon signs,
    etc.  Why?  Well, I suppose it's because I have excellent referrals from many
    customers, and other sign companies.  Yeah Darrel, you can see my work all over
    downtown Miami, Fort Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, and many more cities in this
    area.\r\n\r\nSo, maybe before you say \"the sign industry is not part of the design
    industry\" you should know exactly what your talking about, cause apparently you
    don't.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I'd be happy to upload some of my completed work.  I
    must say, it's a great feeling when you drive around and see your DESIGNS fabricated
    into a $5000 Channel Letter sign, or $15000+ Monument or Pylon sign.  And the
    longer I do this, the more often I see my work scattered throughout the area.\r\n\r\nSorry,
    but as you can tell.........you definitely \"hit a button\" with that comment.
    \ Now go work on your website! ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-21 04:18:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@brian\r\n\r\nDid I insult you? If so, apologies. That was not the intention.\r\n\r\nThicken
    that skin a bit. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-21 07:40:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Public apology. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reinforcement#Positive_and_negative_reinforcement">Cool</a>.
  created: '2012-09-22 04:48:36'
date: '2012-09-19 04:27:02'
title: NEED HELP!!  What are the 2 fonts used in this scanned letterhead?

---
