---
author:
  name: Kristian M
  picture: 111606
body: "Setup:\r\nI own a MacBook Pro i7 2,8 Ghz processor with 8 GB memory, 250 MB
  SSD, Lion installed (10.7.4) with FontLab 5.1.2 (4447).\r\n\r\nProblem:\r\nCrashes
  constantly (ten times a day) an irregular but usually when editing in glyph-window-mode.\r\n\r\nAny
  one else with similar setup \u2013 do you have this problem?\r\n\r\nRight now I\u2019m
  looking for replacement software like \u201DGlyphs\u201D any suggestions?\r\n\r\n\u2013FontLab,
  SHAPE-UP!!!\r\nIn one years time I\u2019m going to need retina-supported software
  as well!\r\n\r\nBW,\r\nKTKM\r\n(Frustrated but devoted FL-User since 2004)"
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Fontlab will never deliver because they can't. I moved away from Fontlab a
    few months ago and I've been extremely happy with that decision. Go with Robofont
    or Glyphs instead.
  created: '2012-09-22 11:45:06'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Funny enough FL is very stable on my G4. Better stick to it \u2026"
  created: '2012-09-22 13:13:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you must use FontLab, maybe switch to Windows.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-22 14:53:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I have been using FontLab on Mac 10.7.4 with hardly ever a crash since 4447
    came out. I only have problems with MS-Office, Word.
  created: '2012-09-22 14:59:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: On my Mac, I only run the Windows version of FontLab, under Parallels.
  created: '2012-09-22 19:04:53'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>On my Mac, I only run the Windows version of FontLab, under Parallels.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nJohn,
    which version of Parallels and the Windows OS are you running and do you use VOLT
    through this set up as well? Also which version of OS X are you running?"
  created: '2012-09-22 20:55:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm still running Snow Leopard. I'll probably update to Lion when I'm reasonably
    confident about the latest version of FontLab. My only complaint with the Parallels
    approach is that it can be slow if I have more than a few apps running.\r\n\r\nI'm
    running Windows 7 under Parallels v.7 (build 7.0.15106)  . I tried installing
    an early Win8 beta under Parallels, but it didn't seem to work; I'll probably
    try again with the release version, presuming that Parallels might need updating
    to handle it.\r\n\r\nYes, I also run VOLT this way. Actually, I do almost all
    my work on the Mac in the Windows environment, since that is what I am used to.
    I only use the Mac OS for running UFO tools like Prepolator and UFOStretch. Oh,
    and for watching films."
  created: '2012-09-23 04:25:26'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Thanks, John. I'm intrigued about what films you might watch but will save
    that for another thread.
  created: '2012-09-23 17:30:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0443649/\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-23 18:08:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I\u2019ve been running Fontlab 5.1.1 on Mac OS 10.7.4 (whatever creature
    that is), for almost a year.\r\nIt\u2019s very stable.\r\n\r\nOccasionally I\u2019ll
    be working on a glyph and the vectors will \uFB02y all over the place, very scary,
    but Undo plus Save \uFB01xes it."
  created: '2012-09-23 18:45:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Do you people listen to yourselves? Apple abandoned its core mission years
    ago, and became a boutique designer brand for airheads. Is it nostalgia or simple
    stubbornness that keeps you from seeing this?\r\n\r\nOTOH, yesterday, a guy was
    telling me what a super deal Apple stock is, and he should know, because he has
    an MBA\u2026and is working as a stock-boy at Target."
  created: '2012-09-24 06:07:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As John hints however there are some font tools that only run on OSX. Which
    however is not nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-24 06:11:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I''m no hardcore Mac fan, Nick. I''ve only had one for about a year, and
    only because some of the more interesting recent font tools are Mac only. '
  created: '2012-09-24 09:15:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Okay: I am not an OS Nazi. If something works for you and it\u2019s Mac only,
    that is cool. Strokes for folks, and all. All I wonder is: is \u201Cinteresting\u201D
    also \u201Cuseful\u201D?"
  created: '2012-09-24 15:12:53'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "I think until/unless Tal makes a Windows version of Metrics Machine, we're
    kind of stuck.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2012-09-25 04:11:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Why do you think Metrics Machine is so critical?\r\n2) Why doesn't he?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-25 04:35:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nExcellent questions. BTW, whatever happened to DTL Kernmaster
    2012? I have a free upgrade coming.\r\n\r\nWhich will be welcome, after I pissed
    away \u20AC255 on DTL Countourmaster six years ago\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-25 13:54:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Of the Mac-only tools I've tried, UFOStretch is the one that I use most frequently
    and have found very useful. I've not tried Metrics Machine because I have my own
    kerning workflow that targets VOLT rather than AFDKO feature code.
  created: '2012-09-25 20:02:35'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "I suppose \"critical\" might not be the correct term, and maybe if you've
    got a kerning workflow that works for you, you aren't likely to change. \r\nBut
    it's so much more efficient, I wouldn't want to have to go back to working without
    it. \r\n\r\nJason C "
  created: '2012-09-26 03:25:25'
- author:
    name: writlarge
  body: "I'm beginning to think FontLab has basically shut their doors except for
    rooking some of us remaining suckers in and taking our money.\r\nI have support
    requests that have gone unacknowledged for two weeks now. Makes me wish I hadn't
    paid for the software, and bought something else instead."
  created: '2012-09-27 19:52:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Glyphs is not crash/bug-free, but communication from the developer inspires
    more confidence that it's on a better trajectory than FontLab. I have found it
    a pleasure to work with so far.
  created: '2012-09-27 21:16:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's how FontLab used to be. So the/one question is: if/when Glyphs becomes
    as successful as FontLab -which means growing the operation- might it not also
    lose its responsiveness?\r\n\r\nI remember being a Lightwave user on the Amiga
    when the whole thing was one guy whom you could call and talk to. Hah.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-27 21:57:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "What precisely does \u201Cas successful as Fontlab\u201D really mean? As
    successful as Monotype? If so, we are all SO screwed\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-27 23:48:51'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>I remember being a Lightwave user on the Amiga when the whole
    thing was one guy whom you could call and talk to. Hah.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n[[http://www.pcmuseum.ca/details.asp?id=38648&type=software|Maybe
    we could look at reviving, TypeSmith]]. Never used it but I loved the Amiga OS.
    Did you ever use it, Hrant?"
  created: '2012-09-28 10:39:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now that you've jogged my memory, yes I do remember trying out TypeSmith!
    But Fontographer ran so well* via MacOS emulation that I had no reason to use
    it much.\r\n\r\n* In fact all Mac programs ran better on my Amiga than on a Mac
    (because of the co-processors).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-28 14:29:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bring back FontStudio
  created: '2012-09-28 16:00:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'My impression is that many who are producing the most and best stuff, if
    they are not using FontLab, are using Robofont. It would be interesting to know
    who is using what now, and why. '
  created: '2012-09-28 17:15:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Define \"best\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-28 17:16:02'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: I use a combination of tools; primarily FontLab but also FontForge, DTL OTMaster
    and increasingly TTX. I have trialled both Glyphs and RoboFont and both seem like
    great applications but as I do not currently require either I would not consider
    moving unless FontLab broke completely. Not to suggest that I am doing anything
    that would be considered the "best stuff", whatever that means.
  created: '2012-09-28 17:34:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill, I assume you mean the FontBureau folks? Since they were big sponsors
    for RoboFont, they probably had great input on what went into it and became committed
    to using it because of their involvement.  I don't think the \"Best Stuff\" comment
    is applicable or even important.  My guess would be that the Brothers Berlow needed
    something that fit into their workflow and were sick and tired of waiting for
    FontLab to fix their mess. You have worked with FB so you know more than I but
    it seems to me that they had a set of tools from several sources (Metrics Machine
    included) that did everything but be a drawing tool. They then made RoboFont into
    their drawing tool and kissed the bug-infested prior software of choice goodbye.
    They have the developers of RoboFont on speed dial and are listened to quickly
    there.\r\nThis has nothing to do with \"best stuff\" and everything to do with
    an efficient production process that is not held hostage by the snail-paced exterminators
    at FontLab.\r\nPersonally, I have all three applications (RoboFont, Glyphs, and
    FontLab). My problem is that everything I have in process was begun in FontLab
    and I have had difficulty switching over without spending my time learning the
    new ones instead of finishing what I have on the front burner now. I will begin
    my next \"from scratch\" font with RoboFont to give it a shot [I too am sick of
    the slow pace in bug fixes--notice I say bug fixes and not \"new features\" because
    new features just bring new bugs].\r\n\r\nAs to your question?  I don't know what
    other people use.  Perhaps you could post it as a survey question on Typophile
    and see?"
  created: '2012-09-28 19:50:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yeah, a survey would be good. I don't mean just FontBureau. I think Mark
    Simonson is using Robofont and also Hoefler and Frere-Jones, but I may be wrong.
    I'm guessing that there are quite a few in Europe, but I don't know. I'm still
    using FontLab, but I have used Metrics Machine, and have Prepolator and Superpolator,
    which are amazing, but in the end were not suited for what I wanted right now.
    \ \r\n\r\nHrant, 'best' for me combines excellence in craft and aesthetics, but
    I know there's a big subjective factor... "
  created: '2012-09-28 19:59:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe FontBureau should've paid a bit more to make it proprietary? (Unless
    they realized it would leak out anyway...)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-28 20:54:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Why would they want it to be proprietary? There is no gain for them and they
    got added support from all of us other folks who also purchased the software.
    They just want tools to work with, not a jump into the software business.
  created: '2012-09-28 21:09:38'
- author:
    name: Kristian M
    picture: 111606
  body: "I feel I should say something? But I enjoy this conversation too much! I
    just realized I have RMX-tools installed as well! Would that add to the problem?
    I also noticed that Glyphs is far from stable, but at least they focus on the
    user experience?\r\nPeople are going on about Robofont! Is it stable for let say
    4 MM\u2019s with 700 characters?\r\n\r\nKTKM"
  created: '2012-09-28 21:53:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I also have RMX tools installed and they cause me NO problem whatsoever.
  created: '2012-09-28 22:38:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Kristian, you''ll have to ask those using Robofont, but I would think that
    it would do fine. But you would do interpolation in conjunction with Superpolator,
    not Multiple Masters. The idea of Robofont is that you use it with other UFO tools.  '
  created: '2012-09-29 03:36:52'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I have been using RoboFont over the summer and plan to continue using it.
    FontLab is still part of my toolbox, and probably will stay there. I haven't made
    anything from start to finish in it yet, and I definitely don't feel as fluent
    with it as I am with FontLab yet. But it also took some time to get accustomed
    to FontLab.\r\n\r\nSeems to me that RoboFont's biggest fans are developers who
    are big users of UFO and Python, and who want total control over their workflow
    (as opposed to a workflow that's dictated by the font editor). It fits right in
    with the other existing UFO-centered tools better than FontLab. Plus, you can
    endlessly customize it using Python, and this is a big part of its appeal. Out
    of the box, it's not as capable as FontLab, but it's not meant to be. It's intended
    as a glyph editing and drawing component of a larger set of tools. So, comparing
    it to FontLab is a bit of apples and oranges."
  created: '2012-09-29 21:24:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark,\r\nMy main problem is in taking a FontLab file over to RoboFont.  I
    have succeeded in making a UFO after stripping all the apostrophe marks out of
    the classes.  My problem is that RoboFont balks at the code written by FontLab
    and me.  I can output a font error free in FontLab but RoboFont has an error message
    for several lines of code--mostly, it can't find the class definitions to look
    up even though I can see them in RoboFont.  I am trying to figure out how and
    where to paste the code text from FEA & FLC files to make RoboFont happy. "
  created: '2012-09-29 22:11:04'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Have you tried asking on the RoboFont forum?\r\n\r\nI would add that RoboFont
    and the whole world of UFO-based tools assume a fair amount of knowledge about
    how OpenType fonts are built (particularly using the AFDKO), in a way that FontLab
    doesn't. \r\n\r\nIt's a bit more low-level in a lot of ways. FontLab tends to
    try to hide a lot of this detail as part of making an all-in-one solution. Glyphs
    is similar in this regard. \r\n\r\nI would also say that the documentation could
    be better. Something like either the FontLab manual or Leslie Cabarga's <em>Learn
    FontLab Fast</em> that gives why's and how to's of using RoboFont/UFO workflow,
    rather than just the what's of the existing documentation, would be a big help.
    There is almost a \"you're smart, you should be able to figure it out\" attitude,
    if I'm not reading too much into it."
  created: '2012-09-29 22:50:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I feel the same way, Mark :-)
  created: '2012-09-29 22:52:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or: \"We're busier than you are smart.\"\r\n\r\nThat can make sense in a
    brutal \"survival of the fittest\" sort of way, but the problem is it tends to
    exclude people who are smart enough, but also very busy: they can only afford
    to pick up a new tool if somebody helps them hit the ground running. It's not
    gracious -and in the big picture not fruitful- to exclude them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 23:02:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Frankly, I have no interest in knowing how sausage is made; if a program
    does what it's supposed to do, I remain blissful in y ignorance of its workings.
    It is only when the program DOES NOT do what it's supposed to do that \u201Cdeeper
    knowledge\u201D becomes useful. Or, are you guys just a bunch of Jack Horners?"
  created: '2012-09-29 23:20:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If FontLab were doing what I think it is supposed to do [run error free and
    not get in the way of production], I wouldn't have bothered looking or purchasing
    elsewhere.\r\n\r\nTrue, I like to know what is under the hood, mostly so I can
    figure out problems on my own and not be held hostage to slow bug fixes.\r\n\r\nI
    would be happy to do my coding in a text editor, and usually do.  I also find
    a spreadsheet ap very handy to keep track of classes, search&replace,  and refine
    sort orders.] I would like to know how to insert class text into the RoboFont
    file.  Simple clues like \"paste here\" would do just fine.  Better would be an
    \"Import Classes\" and \"Import Features file\".\r\nI can see where to paste feature
    code but not \"Classes\" as a text file."
  created: '2012-09-30 04:24:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Oh, well that's a simple answer: Paste them into the beginning of your feature
    code. (Actually, they can go anywhere as long as they precede the features that
    use them.)\r\n\r\nI actually don't put my feature code directly into my font editor
    (either FontLab or RoboFont). Instead I do this:\r\n\r\n<code>include (features.fea)</code>\r\n\r\n...where
    <code>features.fea</code> is a text file (containing all my feature code) in the
    same directory as my font source file (.vfb or .ufo). I use TextMate or BBEdit
    to edit the code. Once it's saved, I can test the features in the font editor
    just as if I had typed them into my font editor. \r\n\r\nThis has two big advantages:
    Better code editing tools (like code completion and complex search and replace)
    and the ability to share the same feature code across a family of fonts.\r\n\r\nYou
    can use <code>include</code> multiple times for multiple files if you need to
    break things up more or have exceptions that don't apply to every member of a
    font family (like maybe all style don't have small caps). You can also use <code>include</code>
    in a <code>.fea</code> file if you want (though this tends to just make things
    more complex)."
  created: '2012-10-01 14:57:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Mark!!!  I will try it!
  created: '2012-10-01 15:34:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Don't forget that class definition syntax is a bit different than in FontLab.
    In FontLab you do this:\r\n\r\n<code>myclass: a b c d e</code>\r\n\r\nIn AFDKO
    syntax you would do this:\r\n\r\n<code>@myclass = [a b c d e];</code>\r\n\r\nIf
    you export your classes from FontLab into a text file, it does the conversion
    for you."
  created: '2012-10-01 16:34:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark,\r\nI exported my classes into a text file which FontLab ends with .flc,
    is this what you mean?"
  created: '2012-10-01 17:35:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Yes, I think that's the extension it uses. I don't have my computer on front
    of me so I can't check.
  created: '2012-10-01 18:05:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Jeez: I love to see geniuses at work. I learn something new almost every
    day\u2026then promptly forget it. Getting old sucks."
  created: '2012-10-01 18:33:45'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Actually, no, Chris. The format of the .flc file is unique to FontLab. Nothing
    to do with feature file syntax.\r\n\r\nWhat you want is the \"Save features\u2026\"
    command in the little pop-up menu on the top left corner of the OpenType panel.
    This will export everything in feature file syntax, including the kerning classes
    and kern feature. \r\n\r\nNote: Confusingly, RoboFont puts all your classes into
    its Groups feature. However, groups in RoboFont are not used by OpenType features.
    I'm not sure what they are good for. In any case, there is a RoboFont extension
    I would recommend called Groups2Features that does finish the job, allowing you
    to move any of your classes from groups into your feature code. I would also recommend
    the FeaturePreview extension."
  created: '2012-10-01 22:47:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "THANKS Again, Mark!\r\n\r\n<< there is a RoboFont extension I would recommend
    called Groups2Features that does finish the job, allowing you to move any of your
    classes from groups into your feature code. I would also recommend the FeaturePreview
    extension.>>\r\n\r\nI assume these are downloadable?"
  created: '2012-10-01 23:04:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Yep: http://typemytype.github.com/RoboFontExtensions/\r\n\r\nInstallation
    instructions are there, too. Basically, you just double click on each extension
    file to install."
  created: '2012-10-02 00:29:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Mark!  Got it installed :-)
  created: '2012-10-02 01:08:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I totally sympathize with the tenor here. We at FontLab tremendously respect
    our user community, and have been working hard. \r\n\r\nHowever, the fact is:
    the current codebase of FontLab Studio was written on Windows and was then ported
    to Mac OS 9, then to PowerPC Carbon on Mac OS X, and then to Intel Carbon on Mac
    OS X. It's like a wardrobe that you kept dismantling and reassembling three or
    four times, each time you move. The fourth iteration will squeak and wobble no
    matter what you do. We've had three full-time developers working primarily on
    stability of FontLab Studio 5.1 for over a year now, and you can see the results.
    They are, well... (Please note that, despite the fact that it was three man-years
    of development, we decided to release FontLab Studio 5.1 for free to all existing
    users.)\r\n\r\nThis only confirms the decision we made three years ago to build
    up a completely new codebase from scratch (Victoria). Since then, a second team
    of three developers has been working on this under the greater-than-ever Yuri
    Yarmola. \r\n\r\n*Finally*, at ATypI Hong Kong (next week) we'll be showing the
    first application based on the Victoria technology. \r\n\r\nIt won't be the new
    FontLab Studio this time, but let me just say that it opens 200 UFOs in under
    25 seconds total, is very stable and I think many of you will like it a lot, whether
    you're on FontLab Studio, Fontographer, Glyphs, RoboFont or FontForge. \r\n\r\nFor
    the first time ever, we won't have to deal with a huge effort of porting code
    between Mac and Windows (we can release applications for both platforms practically
    from the same core), so we can concentrate on the *relevant things*, not on aligning
    some stupid dialog boxes and making sure that copy-paste of text doesn't crash
    the application. \r\n\r\nIt took Adobe many years to develop InDesign 1.0 because
    they could not develop PageMaker any further. It took Apple many years to develop
    Mac OS X 10.0 because they could not develop Mac OS 9 any further. They needed
    fundamental change. \r\n\r\nAnd yes, some people actually moved away from Mac
    OS 9 to Windows in that process. Some switched back over to Mac OS X. And quite
    a few switched to Mac OS X from Windows even though they had never used a Mac
    before. \r\n\r\nHowever: in both Apple's and Adobe's cases, people were frustrated
    because it took the companies so long, and the very initial releases of the products
    were also frustrating to some. \r\n\r\nYet, if you use InDesign on Mac OS X now,
    and perhaps think back to PageMaker on Mac OS 9, I'm not sure you would want to
    ever go back. \r\n\r\nSo, as for FontLab Studio: there will be one more version
    of FontLab Studio 5.x for both Mac and Windows available this year. It will be
    maintenance release with a few potentially useful features. \r\n\r\nA brand-new
    font editor will follow, based on Victoria. Some 60-70% of the new editor are
    ready, but there are still some major parts missing. It will be free of all those
    frustrating limitations we had to live with for the last 5-10 years which were
    part of FontLab Studio. I might even say, it'll be free of quite a few frustrating
    limitations that any type designer had to live with, regardless of the tools they
    use. \r\n\r\nIt certainly won't be the old shit. It'll be a fundamental change.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps it'll be new shit. You'll be the judge. But I cannot say \"available
    now\" just yet \u2014 sorry. \r\n\r\nI've been on this bumpy ride of Victoria
    development for three years now. It's been the busiest and the most exciting time
    since I joined FontLab. To me, and people who have seen it, the results are absolutely
    breathtaking. \r\n\r\nSo, prepare yourselves to join the last bit of the bumpy
    ride in 2013. Don't hold your breath quite now, save that for later. But please
    keep your fingers crossed for us. \r\n\r\nBy all means, if FontLab Studio 5.x
    is causing you pain, use Glyphs or RoboFont until then. Since the Victoria-based
    font editor will be an entirely new product anyway, we'll need to win over the
    users of existing apps to switch \u2014 be it our own or someone else's apps.
    \r\n\r\nDid I say 2013? Yes, I did say 2013. And we mean it. \r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: octopi
      picture: 110705
    body: "Adam, does this mean there will be no further development of Fontlab after
      the next maintenance upgrade?\r\n\r\nI saved for a year to buy Fontlab, will
      there be a cheaper crossgrade for existing Fontlab users to the new app if Fontlab
      is dis-continued?\r\n\r\nMany thanks"
    created: '2012-10-09 20:27:01'
  created: '2012-10-04 15:55:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, sounds great - godspeed. Patience is not for the impatient.  :-)\r\n\r\nSince
    this will essentially be a new product, do you expect the upgrade fee to be more
    than usual?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-04 16:33:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nI understand and appreciate your efforts.  It is just that it is
    frustrating to not be able to release type in the midst of this transition."
  created: '2012-10-04 16:43:06'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: This sounds promising, Adam. And is appreciated very much.
  created: '2012-10-09 08:09:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>This sounds promising, Adam. And is appreciated very much.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    very obsequious. I have a better idea\u2026\r\n\r\nAdam, how about you give everyone
    your personal phone number, so you can field all if the calls from people who
    are fed up with your smoke-up-the-ass song and dance routine. Enough irate calls
    might incentivize you to actually fix these stupid problems. ASAP, or in 2013.
    Really. No shit.\r\n\r\nBest Regards, Nick\r\n\r\nP.S. Nice hat, dude\u2026although
    it could really use a feather to round out the whole William Tell vibe you have
    going\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-09 10:20:26'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: "I'm interested in seeing the new technology. I'm always pleased when companies
    do a 'ground up' revision, it bodes well for the future of the software and normally
    always results in pleasing usability (if not in the first release, then the second).\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I can't help but feel certain comments on this forum are becoming exceptionally
    cruel. I've been following Typophile for some time now, and the things that I'm
    seeing posted lately are beginning to push me away. It's not nice and no one respects
    nasty posters. Being friendly is so much better!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: "<em>Also, I can't help but feel certain comments on this forum are becoming
      exceptionally cruel. I've been following Typophile for some time now, and the
      things that I'm seeing posted lately are beginning to push me away. It's not
      nice and no one respects nasty posters. Being friendly is so much better!</em>\r\n\r\nI
      presume that this comment is directed toward me; perhaps I flatter myself. However,
      I do not think it unreasonable to expect that a product which carries a premium
      price <strong>actually</strong> to work, or that promises made be <strong>actually</strong>
      fulfilled. Silly me."
    created: '2012-10-19 09:46:04'
  created: '2012-10-09 19:21:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually ever since James left* there's only been one abusive person here.
    And if you can't ignore one person out of hundreds that's mostly your loss.\r\n\r\n*
    Although he did recently pop in with this tinged-with-racism gem:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/96629#comment-523576\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-09 19:43:20'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Has anyone experienced FontLab 5.1.3 pre-release build 4631 being more stable
    than 5.1.2?\r\n\r\nI have yet to install 5.1.3, but I've been getting a lot of
    random crashing with 5.1.2 after upgrading to Mountain Lion awhile back."
  created: '2012-10-18 07:46:59'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Has anyone experienced FontLab 5.1.3 pre-release build 4631 being
    more stable than 5.1.2?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, running on 10.7.3 and so far
    more stable than 5.1.2."
  created: '2012-10-18 08:53:39'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Octopi,\r\n\r\nyes, that's right. We won't be releasing a new major upgrade
    of FontLab Studio based on the old codebase. Maintaining it has become increasingly
    complex. \r\n\r\nThe new font editor we're working on, which we'd like to release
    in 2013, won't be a direct continuation of the current FontLab Studio as we know
    it today. \r\n\r\nOf course we will be offering discounted pricing for all existing
    users of FontLab Studio (and for users of other our products accordingly) -- just
    as we had offered discounted pricing in the past for, say, users of Fontographer
    who'd like to purchase FontLab Studio.\r\n\r\nWe think that for some time, users
    will find it useful to have both products. It's likely that some of the \"font
    tech trickery\" features which are part of the current FLS won't be included in
    the new product. \r\n\r\nI'm excited to say that we've shown an early preview
    of our new font editor at ATypI in Hong Kong last week, both publicly and, in
    more depth, privately to some respected type designers, and they reacted very
    positively to what they have seen. \r\n\r\nThis gives us strength to continue
    our efforts to create the best tool for type design on the market. Many thanks
    for your continued support! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-18 09:05:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Karl, Michael,\r\n\r\nbuild 4631 includes a key fix to -- there is no other
    way to put it -- a major fuckup that crept into the code after build 4447. \r\n\r\nPlease
    let us know of your experiences! \r\n\r\n(While, as I said above, we won't be
    releasing a major upgrade to FLS 5.x, we do intend to continue fixing bugs for
    quite some time. Our goal is to make FLS 5.x as stable as possible, while new
    features will go into the fully new product.)\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-18 09:10:29'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Please let us know of your experiences!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA
    key one for me (and I know others here have mentioned it) was the app (5.1.2)
    crashing as I edited glyphs, which happened on a fairly regular basis. This has
    so far not happened with the 5.1.3 build.\r\n\r\nWithout knowing more about the
    new product (though I would very much like to be involved in beta testing, if
    and when that is opened up) it would be nice to see the FontLab tool maintained
    in some way; perhaps broken down into components or depending on the success of
    the new product, with a version released into the wild for others to tinker with?"
  created: '2012-10-18 10:03:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>* Although he did recently pop in with this tinged-with-racism gem:</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    being bored to death with everything you have to say has nothing to do with racism.\r\n\r\nNow
    get back to bitching about font editors."
  created: '2012-10-19 15:48:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You get back under the bridge!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-19 16:29:34'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "Robofont is great. But one major issue with it now is that it is conceived
    as a glyph editor and doesn't provide tools for hinting. You can autohint with
    the AFDKO on generating a OTF, or with ttfautohint if you're doing TrueType, and
    that's basically it. I have a few few fonts with PS links in FontLab. In Robofont
    I will just loose this information and have to rely on what a tool is doing automatically.
    With the demand for webfonts, this is not enough. So just for that, FontLab is
    still a major, functional and advanced tool.\r\n\r\nThe great strength of Robofont
    is the UFO workflow and community. While robofont has nothing for hinting, you
    ***could*** build your own tool for it (or for whatever else), and attach it to
    Robofont as a plugin or as an external tool like MetricsMachine. That is already
    happening with RoboHint: http://vimeo.com/38350058\r\n\r\nAs far as FontLab goes,
    sure last years have been annoying as hell. And surely when you pay for a product
    you expect it to work well. But as font makers, don't we also experience the difficulty
    of producing software that has to work in different environnements over a long
    period of time? Sometimes you get requests and just can't answer them in a timely
    matter because you have to finish a project or find out what is causing that problem.
    Would you really like your customers to treat you like an idiot because kerning
    is suddently not working in Word after they updated their computers?\r\n\r\nBeating
    on the FontLab guys relentlessly just shows a lack of respect and understanding.\r\n\r\n(And
    I have my share of unanswered questions/requests on the FontLab forum)\r\n\r\nNow
    it would be great to get an answer there: http://typophile.com/node/36474?page=1\r\n:)"
  created: '2012-10-19 17:31:52'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>You get back under the bridge!</cite>\r\n\r\nI'll get back under the
    bridge when I see you hanging off of it."
  created: '2012-10-19 19:08:33'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Adam yes the 5.1.3 build solved the problems I was having, specifically with
    the intermittent crashing. Everything has been smooth since installing it the
    other day.\r\n\r\nSpeaking on your earlier post, I'm curious what you meant by
    \"font tech trickery\"? My current workflow is Fontlab, RMX Tools, Prepolator,
    Superpolator and UFO Stretch. I have no interest in trying the new programs on
    the market as I have no real qualms with my current workflow, I only imagine that
    it'd be much nicer if all the separate programs I just listed were merged into
    one program.\r\n\r\nThe new version of FontLab in 2013 won't have all the same
    features as the current version? What major features are being omitted?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: "@Michael Jarboe \r\n\r\nThem's a whole lotta tools; I've gotten by with
      Fontographer, FontLab and MS Font Validater for years\u2014but, then, I'm a
      hack with 0ver 1,100 fonts to my name.\r\n\r\nWhat would be really cool would
      be an INTELLIGENT Bold function\u2014one with tunable parameters to solve the
      S/8 pariah\u2026"
    created: '2012-10-20 07:47:48'
  created: '2012-10-19 22:12:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mike,\r\n\r\nwell, it's difficult to explain. Most functionalities have a
    different approach. For example, we have unlimited layers which includes any numbers
    of outlines and bitmaps (color, grayscale or b/w). Glyph design and spacing happens
    in one unified window, which supports any OpenType features including Indic and
    Arabic shaping. The \"blind\" implementation of Multiple Master is replaced by
    a very different approach to interpolation across different masters. Character
    sets, encodings, codepages are seriously revamped. Etc. etc. \r\n\r\nAll this
    has serious implications to the workflow. I think you're right to assume that
    quite a few of functionalities that you've mentioned will be unified in the new
    app. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-20 09:17:30'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'For about 1/3 the price of FontLab, you can by a basic PC (Dell) that will
    run Fontlab in Windows. If you must, hide it in a closet so your friends won''t
    know. '
  created: '2012-10-20 15:23:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Luc(as) de Groot has a Dell notebook with an Apple sticker plastered over
    the Dell logo on the cover :)
  created: '2012-10-20 16:18:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Best of both worlds, Adam. He's got a good, inexpensive machine, and his designer
    friends still think he's cool.
  created: '2012-10-20 17:33:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And he gets to laugh at their delusions. Luc[as] is da man.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-20 17:42:35'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Adam, I have noticed that in version 5.1.3 using the Macro Toolbar, the 'Top
    level' drop down doesn't change to reflect any of the selections. For instance,
    if I select from the Top level drop down 'RoboFabUFO', it will still read as 'Top
    level', or any other selection it gets stuck on. \r\n\r\nIt doesn't seem to effect
    the functionality, as the second level drop down reflects each selection and the
    Macros still work. (even though RoboFab seems to be broken a bit with this new
    version of 5.1.3) The only way to get the Top level drop down to reflect the selection
    name is to 'Reset macro' after making a selection."
  created: '2012-10-29 20:33:32'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: These FontLab updates keep screwing up my RoboFab Macro, I need oldnick to
    start yelling at someone, pronto.
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: And exactly <strong>what</strong> are you trying to imply, Buster?
    created: '2012-10-30 00:41:03'
  created: '2012-10-29 20:50:55'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "We have posted today new <strong><a href=\"http://www.fontlab.com/news-and-events/fontlab-announcements/new-fontlab-studio-mac-win-public-previews/\">pre-release
    builds 4692 of FontLab Studio 5.1.3 for Mac and 5.2 for Windows</a></strong>.
    Quite a few bug fixes, finally including a fix for the RoboFab UFO importing problem!\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-11-06 22:31:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Adam!\r\nIs 4692 at least as stable as 4447?"
  created: '2012-11-06 22:36:26'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, it DID take Adobe many years to develop InDesign 1.0, and it was an
    unmitigated piece of crap; it screwed up font handling so bad that I had to uninstall,
    then reinstall Acrobat, Illustrator AND Photoshop. From the serious ass-smoking
    that Adam is laying down, I suppose that we can expect a similarly auspicious
    launch of Victoria. Whoop-tee-freaking-doo.\r\n\r\nBTW, I stall haven't heard
    anything about DTL Kernmaster 2012; wasn't that due out months ago?"
  created: '2012-11-07 10:26:40'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nwe haven't heard any negative comments or problem reports
    so far. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Thanks, Adam.
    created: '2012-11-08 23:52:58'
  created: '2012-11-08 23:41:33'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I am feeling sick merely at the idea of having to learn a new type design
    software\u2026 :-("
  created: '2012-12-29 21:43:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: If it matters to anyone, a largely stable build of FontForge for Mac is now
    available at [[http://fuuko.libferris.com/osx/packages/]]. It's not perfect, in
    fact it's downright experimental, but it might give you something to work with
    for a while.
  created: '2013-01-26 04:49:46'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: "Hi Adam,\r\n\r\nSince we're almost halfway through 2013 now, which quarter
    will FontLab's Victoria thing most likely be released? Second, third?\r\n\r\nCurious!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nGerben"
  created: '2013-06-12 22:52:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Fifth?
  created: '2013-06-13 21:31:50'
date: '2012-09-22 10:30:43'
node_type: forum
title: I NEED A STABLE MAC VERSION OF FONTLAB NOW!

---
