---
author:
  name: snds
body: "Hello all,\r\n\r\nI am quite new to the process of creating a font so please
  bear with the supreme beginner-like questions about to be asked. I have 2 core issues,
  one of which pertains to display resolution and rendering (and the specs needed
  to build the font to the appropriate scale):\r\n\r\nGlyph definition in relation
  to unicode standards\r\nPixel perfect glyphs for certain pixel scales\r\n\r\nHere's
  the jist: I am working the creation of a icon font for use on the web and I am having
  trouble sorting out the best way to go about producing a font with non-standard
  glyphs as each icon is different than others. This is basically meant to be a sprite
  file almost akin to what is done in webdings, etc. for my website.  All of this,
  I feel, boils down to Unicode definitions. Is there a guide or easy way to sort
  this out? Googling has left me somewhat worse for wear as none of the tutorials
  or guides give a soup-to-nuts scenario.\r\n\r\nFYI: I am using Glyphs (www.glyphsapp.com)
  for font creation.\r\n\r\nSecondly, I am dealing with icons that have 2 different
  detail scales to accomodate for detail loss at smaller sizes due to pixel density
  of standard displays. I know that fonts scale as they are vector (and thus work
  perfectly fine for HiDPI displays) that is the nature of the beast, however, I need
  certain icons to be pixel precise and am unsure of how to go about this.\r\n\r\nThanks
  for any and all help you can provide.\r\n\r\n-Sean"
comments:
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "On your first issue: try and stay semantic\u2014 if an icon has a related
    symbol in Unicode, use its Unicode value. Otherwise assign a PUA value and display
    it using a CSS replacement technique or (possibly) OpenType substitution. Some
    relevant links:\r\n\r\nOn Unicode assignment in icon fonts: [[http://somerandomdude.com/2012/01/31/font-embedding-icons-the-right-way/|Font-Embedding
    Icons the Right Way]]\r\n\r\nSome common Unicode icon entities: [[http://www.codestyle.org/css/at-font-face/StandardUnicodeIconsWebFonts.shtml|Unicode
    icons in Web fonts]]\r\n\r\nUnicode character reference: [[http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/search.htm|Unicode
    Character Search]]\r\n\r\nMethods for HTML markup and CSS: [[http://css-tricks.com/html-for-icon-font-usage/|HTML
    for Icon Font Usage]]\r\n\r\nSemantic icon fonts using OpenType substitution:\r\n[[http://symbolset.com/blog/semantic-symbol-fonts/|Symbolset
    - Semantic Symbol Fonts]]\r\n\r\nPixel precision? Not likely. Even if you delta-hinted
    all of your glyphs for small ppem sizes, most modern platforms ignore some or
    all hinting, and embedded bitmaps are pretty much extinct. A convoluted solution
    might be to use CSS and javascript to detect device-pixel-ratio, then load/position
    an image sprite instead of the font."
  created: '2012-09-25 21:41:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>most modern platforms ignore some or all hinting</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIs
    this true?\r\nHow much hinting does Windows ignore?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>embedded
    bitmaps are pretty much extinct.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA damn shame.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-25 22:32:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Is there a guide or some easy way to sort this out?\r\n\r\nA couple of big
    blogs posted about icon fonts a while back and suddenly it's all the rage. I tweeted
    about my post on the topic yesterday ( typophile.com/node/96583) and got retweets
    like there was no tomorrow. Oh, you predictable suckers. Problem is, the tutorials
    gives the impression this is easy. Truth is, it isn't."
  created: '2012-09-25 22:35:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Correction: making something half-assed is pretty straight forward, but it''s
    an ethical wormhole.'
  created: '2012-09-25 22:37:50'
- author:
    name: snds
  body: "Thanks for moving me in the right direction folks. Much appreciated. I'll
    let you know how things pan out; also bug you when I have the next inevitable
    question.\r\n\r\n-S "
  created: '2012-09-25 22:38:12'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "<blockquote>How much hinting does Windows ignore?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt
    depends on the rasterizer and display settings, but any subpixel rendering (ClearType)
    pays less attention to x-direction hints, and subpixel positioning (DirectWrite)
    means that any given glyph could render slightly differently depending on its
    location.\r\n\r\nNone of this to suggest that hinting is useless\u2014particularly
    (mainly?) for Windows\u2014just that the variety of platforms and settings makes
    webfonts a poor mechanism for delivering \"pixel precise\" icons."
  created: '2012-09-26 00:29:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>any subpixel rendering (ClearType) pays less attention to x-direction
    hints</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a bit misleading, I think. Better as a general statement
    to say that the effect of x-direction hints in subpixel rendering is different
    from and less pronounced than their effect in greyscale antialiasing, and that
    specific x-direction instruction types may be ignored completely (as is the case
    with x deltas in ClearType, although there is a mechanism to turn them on at the
    individual font level)."
  created: '2012-09-26 00:42:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"any subpixel rendering (ClearType) pays less attention to x-direction hints\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    correct. Almost all systems today subpixel render in x, and the majority pixel
    render fonts in y, aligning the baseline, descent and ascent, 3 y features, to
    the grid. All other features in y and all features in x are rendered by most systems
    without hints. \r\n\r\nThis may be why icons are \"over\" and big skinny type
    is replacing them. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-26 04:42:16'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: If you're going to be controlling how the font is used on your site, you may
    be better off making a pixel font for each size you need. Fontstruct.com is an
    easy tool for this. Unfortunately, it will necessarily be vulnerable to people
    scaling the type up and down in their browsers, and of course Retina display users
    will notice, but I think those are expected limitations.
  created: '2012-09-26 17:06:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW/but what about that [Apple] Emoji stuff? I thought that was bitmaps.
    Doesn't that work OK? Only on iOSX*?\r\n\r\n* I just made that up. Go with it
    dude.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-27 17:00:13'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>BTW/but what about that [Apple] Emoji stuff?</blockquote>\r\n\r\n[[http://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/apple-color-emoji/|According
    to this article at Typographica]] they are, \"color bitmaps included at two sizes
    in a proprietary \u201Csbix\u201D table\"."
  created: '2012-09-27 17:19:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So can we do that too? Anywhere?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-27 17:40:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I think that SD Typographica article is a bit of an exaggeration. What I think
    we see illuminated to some extent there, is the convenient attributes of fonts
    and Unicode being twisted to suit the needs of a party. As a solution to scalable
    color icons, it seems pretty narrow and short-sighted. And it gobbled up Unicodes
    when there are still scripts with 1000s of as yet to be encoded glyphs? A shames.
  created: '2012-09-29 18:52:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree, but mostly I'm wondering about how it works, and how possible (and
    safe...) it is to co-opt.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 19:57:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>And it gobbled up Unicodes when there are still scripts with 1000s
    of as yet to be encoded glyphs?</em>\r\n\r\nWe're not in risk of running out of
    Unicode codepoints any time soon, so I'm not concerned about them being gobbled
    up, per se. And I say that as one of the people who made the case <em>against</em>
    encoding emoji in Unicode, and I agree with you completely that this represents
    hijacking of the convenience of fonts and text encoding, but that's been the nature
    of pi fonts, wingdings, etc. for a long time.\r\n\r\n<em>...to suit the needs
    of a party.</em>\r\n\r\nMany parties, unless you group as one everyone involved
    in making and selling mobile phone hardware and software. That's who pushed the
    emoji encoding through."
  created: '2012-09-29 20:10:03'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "A quick peek into the 'sbix' table:\r\n\r\nVersion: 2 USHORTS, as usual for
    TTF tables. Version seems to be 1.1\r\nNum Sizes: ULONG -- 6, for Apple Color
    Emoji v.8.0d3e1\r\n   numSizes * ULONG: offset for size table, relative to the
    start of the sbix chunk\r\n\r\nEach size table starts with\r\nSize   USHORT\r\nDpi
    \  USHORT\r\n    The sizes in the six tables are  20, 40, 48, 64, 96, and 160
    pixels (all individual images appear to be square). Dpi is '72' in all of the
    tables.\r\n\r\nThen follow (<em>numChars</em> + 1) * ULONG offsets from the start
    of the size table. <em>numChars</em> seems to be taken from the maxp table, plus
    1 to add a 'last entry' file size.\r\n\r\nEach offset from the start of <em>this</em>
    table points to:\r\n4 zero bytes \\\r\n\"png \"         / reminiscent of Apple's
    File Type/Creator data\r\n.... raw PNG data\r\n\r\nThe file size of the PNG data
    seems to be calculated from the offset to the <em>next</em> image; the last one
    is empty.\r\n\r\nThere seems to be no direct link from bitmap index to Unicode
    or the character map. The first 41 images seems to always be of size 0; inverse
    parallel to InDesign's Glyph panel, where the first 41 glyphs contain visible
    vector data (the bitmaps are <em>not</em> visible in InDesign).\r\n\r\nUseful?
    I don't think so. Only Apple's own software can display these glyphs, probably
    through the shared code base for its own glyph rendering. Inserting a Color Emoji
    here: [*] (\"Do Not Litter\", U+1F6AF). It should look like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/emoji-852_4024.png]\r\n\r\n(My
    Shared Code base just got some support. I originally typed this into Safari, until
    remembering it doesn't allow me to insert an image. It did display the emoji above.
    Switched to Firefox, Insert image Yes but Color Emoji No.)\r\n\r\n[*] Ouch! Typophile
    does not like Color Emoji and cut off the rest of my post!"
  created: '2012-09-30 12:48:04'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: (Argh, editing troubles)
  created: '2012-09-30 12:49:32'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Ah, wait. The bitmaps are in the same order as glyph ids. Translating glyph
    names to character names, I get images such as \"u26c5.png\" (\"Sun behind clouds\")
    -- and \"u0032_u20E3.png\" (a proper ligature, \"2\" followed by \"enclosing key
    cap\"), as well as an interesting application of the Regional Indicator symbols.
    These are also ligatures, and the one for \"GB\" (U+1F1EC, U+1F1E7) looks like
    this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u1F1EC_u1F1E7_6429.png]\r\n\r\n..
    but it doesn't contain the Dutch flag .."
  created: '2012-09-30 13:09:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I know. We need one for every country, every thing, every thought, every name,
    and "duh" too. What should the "Duh" look like?
  created: '2012-09-30 14:18:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Theunis, great digging.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Only Apple's own software can
    display these glyphs</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat would it take to overcome that?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 15:13:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>What should the \"Duh\" look like?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMust...
    resist... temptation to post someone's avatar..."
  created: '2012-09-30 15:14:19'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>Must... resist... temptation to post someone's avatar...</blockquote>\r\n\r\n(g)
    take your pick. Any particular candidate in mind? :-)\r\n\r\nHrant, I'm not sure
    what part is picked up by Apple's code. Perhaps it's just the presence of the
    \"sbix\" table that triggers \"oh let's use a bitmap here, and look up the closest
    one for the current display font size\". I inserted them into InDesign (which
    I already knew wouldn't display them, due to Adobe's own Type rendering code)
    and then, heh heh, exported to PDF to see what Apple's <em>Preview</em> shows.
    Alas, nuffin'.\r\n\r\nCode-wise, it would not be a real big challenge to mimick
    what Apple does. But I don't think FreeType and their likes are going to add this
    on short notice. (Of course, if you are doing your own font rendering, it should
    be as easy as I describe above.)\r\n\r\nI'll experiment some more, see if I can
    add a bitmap or two to one of my own fonts. At the very least, it'd be a nice
    surprise for users of your font if they happen to be using it with one of Apple's
    programs that support this."
  created: '2012-09-30 15:39:20'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>We need one for every country, every thing, every thought, every
    name, and \"duh\" too.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat, no emoji for that? And yet they
    included <em>both</em> \"Alien monster\" and \"extraterrestrial\", as well as
    <strong>10</strong> different Cat Faces! No doubt due to popular demand from Japanese
    teen girls, a political force of their own.\r\n\r\nAh, wait: there is a \"cuneiform
    sign Duh\" (U+12083). "
  created: '2012-09-30 15:50:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Japanese teen girls, a political force of their own.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTrumped
    by the all-powerful cat lobby at every turn however.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>there
    is a \"cuneiform sign Duh\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGo with it dude! What does it
    look like?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 15:56:46'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "[[http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/12083/index.htm|Fileformat.info]]
    shows the symbol for cuneiform sign Duh.  Unfortunately, for [[http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/f04e8/index.htm|U+FE048]],
    the  Kinya syllable \"Doh,\" it shows only a generic place-holder.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2012-09-30 17:47:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean this?\r\nhttp://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/12083/cuneiform_sign_duh.png\r\nIsn't
    that just a placeholder for the Cuneiform block?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\"Doh,\" it
    shows only a generic place-holder.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's out of this world.
    They could at least show a balding yellow head.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 18:09:54'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "You can see a rather ugly rendition of it at\r\n[[http://www.decodeunicode.org/u+12083]]\r\nor
    a somewhat better one in the 12083 slot of\r\n[[http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U12000.pdf]]"
  created: '2012-09-30 19:13:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's more like a \"Duuuuuh\".  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 19:29:24'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "That was fun! I hard-coded one single image into my OTF (Type 1) generator
    and then generated a simple font. It works! ... Even though this is a Type 1 font.
    Must be some <em>serious</em> hacky overrides in Apple's code.\r\n\r\nThis is
    in TextEdit; the character '^' contains the bitmap:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/moon_5785.png]\r\n\r\nOne
    unexpected result is that the original vector data is drawn <em>over</em> the
    bitmap image. Not only that, it actually got scaled to both size and position
    of the '^' in my original font. My font generator doesn't allow for no-op drawing,
    so I had to draw a simple circle for a placeholder. I guess using Type 1 as a
    base is not that useful, because it doesn't allow an 'empty' drawing that still
    takes up space -- all ink marking are going to be visible.\r\n\r\nYou can download
    the <a href=\"http://www.jongware.com/binaries/bitmapimage-regular.zip\">zipped
    font</a> here; apart from the sbix table, the rest is nothing spectacular."
  created: '2012-09-30 23:41:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Rock on Theunis!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 23:49:04'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Tying this back to Sean's question -- apologies for the slight diversion
    :D\r\n\r\n<ul><li>You <em>can</em> embed optimised bitmaps (pixel representations)
    into a font (I must admit I don't have a clue how you would make them -- Photoshop?
    MS Paint?)</li>\r\n<li>.. although it depends on the end-user's software whether
    s/he gets to see your painstakingly hand drawn glyphs. Software may or may not
    use your pixel previews.</li>\r\n<li>The pixel previews are bound to a <em>pixel</em>
    size, and you don't know in advance which size(s) would be needed. Therefore,
    you typically would need to create lots of different sizes.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nA
    few random snippets from <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/tt/win95tt.aspx\">Microsoft's
    TrueType discussion</a>:\r\n<blockquote>Embedded bitmaps are bitmaps that can
    be added to a TrueType font file. A font may contain one or more embedded bitmaps,
    for one or more pixel-per-em (ppem) sizes. For instance, a TrueType font might
    include embedded bitmaps of glyphs that are difficult to hint at small sizes,
    such as complex ideographs.</blockquote>\r\n<blockquote>[..] The TrueType font
    format currently does not support gray scale embedded bitmaps.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIs
    this new-fangled 'sbix' stuff something for you, then?\r\nAt first glance you
    might think so, because:\r\n(1) you can use any color you want, including fully
    anti-aliased grayscale;\r\n(2) you can provide optimized bitmaps for different
    pixel sizes.\r\n\r\nBut, as per tests above, it comes with a few drawbacks as
    well!\r\n(1) It will only work on Apple's Mac OS X,\r\n(2) .. and then only with
    selected applications.\r\n(3) You can show a vector over a bitmap, or just a bitmap.
    On unsupported systems, only the vector part will be visible.\r\n\r\nHere is my
    test font on a Windows 7 machine, in Microsoft Word:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bitmapimage_4664.png]\r\n\r\nBottom
    line is, best to stick to the OTF standard. If you are concerned for the quality
    of your font at smaller sizes, try and find out how you can generate, hand-optimize,
    and embed standard black-and-white pixel versions with your software."
  created: '2012-10-01 10:51:10'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Theunis, do you by any chance know how to code in Python? I have the unpacking
    part of the sbix table format working as an extension of the Python FontTools,
    the \u2018only\u2019 thing missing would be the compiling function for the sbix
    table.\r\n\r\nIf you\u2019d like to take a shot, I\u2019d be happy to send you
    what I have got. I\u2019d donate the code to the FontTools project if eventually
    somebody makes it work. I\u2019d do it myself, but my time is really limited right
    now."
  created: '2012-10-01 14:02:19'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Jens, sorry, I have no experience *at all* with Python. I did my experimental
    unpacking in C (not even C++), and including the image was done with hardcoding
    the constants in Javascript. No actual 'compiling' was involved.
  created: '2012-10-01 15:00:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I don't have a clue how you would make [bitmapfonts]</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFontographer
    can output BDFs (although it can't embed them); that's how I once made 5 sizes
    of bitmaps for Arasan (and used SBIT to embed). There are other tools too, including
    some that make color BDFs (which I once used to embed 16-gray bitmaps, which <em>sort
    of</em> worked - in fact much better than that MS passage implies, although still
    not robustly enough). But the problem isn't making or embedding them, the problem
    -as you imply- is that these days they get largely ignored.  :-(\r\n\r\nBut maybe
    Apple has opened up an opportunity (which is quite ironic considering their anti-pixel
    font rendering philosophy).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It will only work on Apple's Mac
    OS X</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat about a Windows plug-in/extension of some sort?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>If
    you are concerned for the quality of your font at smaller sizes ....</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I <em>have</em> successfully made outline fonts that render out precise grayscale
    patterns at specific sizes (with special software by the now-defunct Ultrafonts):\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\nAlthough
    they don't work as robustly as they used to...\r\n\r\nThe thing is, now that we're
    getting 250+ dpi screens I do have to admit it's becoming moot (although I still
    don't agree with Apple's full-fuzz philosophy). So the impetus now is something
    else, something that can't be done with current rendering/formats: color!\r\n\r\nJens,
    good to have you here - my hope is now doubled!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-01 16:58:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I don't have a clue how you would make them -- \"\r\n\r\nI think we want
    to make them in a font tool, on a layer(s) that is produced with the option of
    an instructed outline, where the rendering type and color(s) are defined in the
    usual way, and the layer(s) are then manufactured into whatever sfnt, and other
    formats work the widest, web-wise. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-03 14:48:37'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>I think we want to make them in a font tool, on a layer(s) that
    is produced with the option of an instructed outline, where the rendering type
    and color(s) are defined in the usual way, and the layer(s) are then manufactured
    into whatever sfnt, and other formats work the widest, web-wise.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDo
    you think it would be possible to build something like this into RoboFont?"
  created: '2012-10-03 15:00:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Would that be better than metafont?
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: dberlow, I don't see how it's related to metafont. Did you mean "will it
      be as unpopular as metafont, or not"?
    created: '2012-10-15 17:53:22'
  created: '2012-10-04 03:00:52'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: I honestly do not know. If sufficient time and energy is invested in either
    developing or supporting the efforts of development in any of the major tools
    then perhaps one is as good as another? The extensibility and comparatively friendly
    user interface (compared, for example with FontForge) of RoboFont combined with
    your expressed familiarity (on these boards) is what led me to ask.
  created: '2012-10-04 06:31:58'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: 'I worked on my code some more and present to you: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/103268">How
    to generate colour bitmap fonts</a>.'
  created: '2013-05-24 11:14:46'
date: '2012-09-25 19:30:18'
title: 'Unicode Definition For Dummies? Also: pixel precision.'

---
