---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "A news item on Typophile* claims that \"the latest introductions of web based
  typography allows for layering and transparency\". This is really juicy if it is
  in fact robust and widespread. And it might be the nail in the coffin of Photofonts.\r\n\r\n*
  http://typophile.com/node/96691\r\n\r\nSo my question is: For real reals?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "Transparency and shadowing are widely supported through CSS. Layering can
    be achieved using pseudo elements and further javascript trickery, aided by libraries
    like [[http://letteringjs.com/|lettering.js]].\r\n\r\nAn example of what's currently
    possible (scroll down):\r\nhttp://lostworldsfairs.com/eldorado/\r\n\r\nFurther
    reading: [[http://coding.smashingmagazine.com/2012/06/21/powerful-new-cssjavascript-techniques/#typography|Typography
    And Text With CSS]]"
  created: '2012-09-27 10:07:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for the reply.\r\n\r\nSo on that page, is the light brown <em>supposed</em>
    to be misaligned with the dark brown (leaving a white gap)?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/24_3420.jpg]\r\n(Firefox
    15.0.1 on WinXP-sp2)\r\n\r\nAny other examples? Something like a properly deployed
    FF Primary? I'd like to know if this really is reliable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-27 14:30:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"the latest introductions of web based typography allows for layering and
    transparency\". \r\n\r\nIf \"latest\" means since 1997*, then this would be accurate.
    :-) However, cross platform/browser alignment/registration problems are an issue,
    but in this case I think the effect is by design. \r\n\r\n* http://www.microsoft.com/typography/web/embedding/demos/5/about5.aspx"
  created: '2012-09-27 16:16:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe they mean HTML5?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-27 16:31:12'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "No not HTML5. Those offset light brown numerals were created with lettering.js.
    So was this, http://trentwalton.com/2011/11/18/workspace. If you highlight the
    hanging letters, you will see they actually highlight. Not what you see when trying
    to highlight an image. So it's actual characters manipulated via javascript. You
    can also put background images in the shape of the letter.\r\n\r\nWe are also
    able to use ligatures and swashes with CSS. \r\nhttp://elliotjaystocks.com/blog/the-fine-flourish-of-the-ligature\r\nhttp://elliotjaystocks.com/blog/say-it-with-a-swash"
  created: '2012-09-28 05:41:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool.\r\n\r\nNow let's see layered type that's perfectly registered.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-28 05:46:47'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "\"You have to use you're HANDS? That's like a babies toy!\"\r\n\r\nhttp://manufacturaindependente.com/colorfont/\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2012-09-28 05:50:02'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\n<blockquote>Now let's see layered type that's perfectly
    registered.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat do you mean by \"perfectly registered\"?"
  created: '2012-09-28 06:09:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>http://manufacturaindependente.com/colorfont/</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCool.
    So is it pretty robust across platforms/browsers? Is the top title supposed to
    look like this?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/colorfonts_4237.jpg]\r\nI
    have a feeling the gray layer with the half letters is supposed to be sitting
    higher (on top of the ~green layer). Ergo: Not even close to \"perfectly registered\"
    (AKA aligned).\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\n<blockquote>proprietary fonts always forbid redistributing
    modified versions.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's misleading because you're not really
    redistributing the fonts, and some font houses -like Adobe- do allow you to modify
    their fonts.\r\n\r\nAlso, if you commission a font (the ultimate in \"proprietary\"
    :-) you can decide to do anything you want with it (like happened when I was commissioned
    to make Arasan back in the day).\r\n\r\nOne more thing: you can always make your
    own and distribute it up the wazoo!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-28 06:41:54'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\n\r\nColorfont.js only works in modern browsers. I just
    tested IE7 and IE8 and they both failed. IE9 does work. And to answer your question.
    yes it is supposed to look like that. \r\n\r\nHere is a gallery of sites using
    lettering.js - http://letteringjs.com"
  created: '2012-09-28 07:11:18'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "<blockquote>Now let's see layered type that's perfectly registered.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHere's
    what that earlier example looks like after adjusting the CSS positioning values
    (tested in Mac Firefox and Safari).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/layered_4939.png]\r\n\r\nI
    would agree that the original offset effect was intentional, it's consistent with
    the overall motif."
  created: '2012-09-28 12:24:18'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "<blockquote>yes it is supposed to look like that</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    Colorfont header appears properly aligned in Mac Firefox and Safari. Windows Firefox
    and IE9 have the vertical misalignment issue seen in hrant's screenshot. Since
    only the slab-serif header font is misaligned in Windows (the DIN font looks fine),
    it's likely an issue with cross-platform vertical metrics in that particular \"colorfont.\""
  created: '2012-09-28 13:03:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Come on, people! Is it really THAT HARD to develop a fully HTML5/CSS3 compliant
    browser that will work CONSISTENTLY on all (two? three?) platforms? I used to
    think Firefox would do the trick, but the last three or four revisions have introduced
    more problems than they have solved (Seriously? You can't load a PDF in the browser
    window? Your stupid pop-up blocker causes PayPal to loop, necessitating browser
    reload). Will Google Chrome lead us out of the wilderness, or will it keep crashing?\r\n\r\nPlus\u2026\r\n\r\n@hrant:\r\n\r\n<em>BTW:\r\n\r\n
    \  <em> proprietary fonts always forbid redistributing modified versions.\r\n\r\n<em>That's
    misleading because you're not really redistributing the fonts, and some font houses
    -like Adobe- do allow you to modify their fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>Also, if you commission
    a font (the ultimate in \"proprietary\" :-) you can decide to do anything you
    want with it (like happened when I was commissioned to make Arasan back in the
    day).\r\n\r\n<em>One more thing: you can always make your own and distribute it
    up the wazoo! :-)</em>\r\n\r\nHave you been reading the iLUVfonts prospectus?
    Why is it that so many commonsensical solutions get overlooked by the brain-dead
    lemmings in this forum?\r\n\r\nAnd, FWIW: \u201Cout the wazoo\u201D is the preferred
    form\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-28 13:10:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Colorfont.js only works in modern browsers.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n1)
    So the latest (release) version of Firefox is not a \"modern browser\"?\r\n2)
    What use is targeting a \"modern browser\" if 5 people are using it?\r\n\r\nJustin,
    the registration in your adjusted version does look great (thanks). Could you
    put up some kind of test page (the more comprehensive the better) that could be
    checked on pretty-much-modern browsers?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I would agree that
    the original offset effect was intentional, it's consistent with the overall motif.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAgreed,
    but I would worry that that motif was chosen exactly because good registration
    is brittle over too great a proportion of browsing setups...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it's
    likely an issue with cross-platform vertical metrics in that particular \"colorfont.\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat
    would be good news - although a site that's trying to promote an idea should try
    to make sure all its parts work correctly often enough. Windows Firefox and IE
    aren't exactly legacy annoyances...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 14:55:23'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\nThat is a modern browser. However, if people are not going
    to take the initiative to make sure their products work cross-browser and cross-platform,
    it won't be successful.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>That would be good news - although
    a site that's trying to promote an idea should try to make sure all its parts
    work correctly often enough. Windows Firefox and IE aren't exactly legacy annoyances...</blockquote>\r\nIE
    is the biggest problem developers have to deal with. IE 6 isn't as popular as
    it once was and now developers are pushing to rid IE 8. Chrome is now the most
    widely used browser surpassing IE."
  created: '2012-09-29 18:59:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Chrome is now the most widely used browser surpassing IE.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is, it's not who's ahead, it's who's alive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 19:51:39'
- author:
    name: ahyangyi
    picture: 120032
  body: "@oldnick\r\n\r\nNo, you can't. As far as I know, browsers don't follow standards.
    Instead, standards follow the most popular browsers."
  created: '2012-09-29 20:31:54'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>That's misleading because you're not really redistributing the fonts,
    and some font houses -like Adobe- do allow you to modify their fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    firmly believe that @font-face <em>really is</em> redistributing fonts. \r\n\r\n<em>Also,
    if you commission a font (the ultimate in \"proprietary\" :-) you can decide to
    do anything you want with it (like happened when I was commissioned to make Arasan
    back in the day).</em>\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson pointed out to me years ago that there
    is a namespace slash around the word 'proprietary' in the software and typographic
    communities. \r\n\r\n\"Proprietary\" in typography means 'bespoke' \r\n\r\n\"Proprietary\"
    in software means 'not respecting the 4 software freedoms' \r\n\r\nThis can obviously
    be rather confusing, since if you can decide to do anything you want with it,
    its very much a libre font, that software and type freedom is about <b>the users</b>,
    and there is not requirement to make libre works public, although since @font-face
    makes readers into users, private libre type is unlikely. "
  created: '2012-09-29 21:31:10'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\nAnd what do you mean by that?"
  created: '2012-09-29 21:36:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I firmly believe that @font-face really <em>is</em> redistributing
    fonts.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI admit that stance is not without merit.\r\n\r\n\"Proprietary\":
    terms can indeed have different meanings depending on context. But I don't think
    the term was used very rigorously in the passage I quoted. And:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>private
    libre type is unlikely.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf you mean it's unlikely that an
    organization would pay for having a font made and then allow others to modify
    it, I agree. But I was referring to internal modification: if you're worried about
    not being able to modify a non-libre font to make it work for you, commission
    one so you can do with it what you like.\r\n\r\nChristopher, what I mean is that
    much more important that what browser happens to be on top at the moment is the
    set of browsers that are in play (which thankfully changes much more slowly) because
    you can't ignore big chunks of users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 21:52:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'So, I guess a no, unless you want leave the standards. '
  created: '2012-09-29 22:01:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, Justin did fix the \"24\", and if he's right that the Colorfont* title
    being misaligned is the font's fault, it might still be workable.\r\n\r\n* http://manufacturaindependente.com/colorfont/\r\n\r\nWe
    need a good test page.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 22:41:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>No, you can't. As far as I know, browsers don't follow standards. Instead,
    standards follow the most popular browsers.</em>\r\n\r\nOops: somebody better
    tell W3C\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-29 23:08:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dave, trying harder to explain myself:\r\nThe problem with the passage I
    quoted is that it jumps too conveniently* from \"we can't use retail fonts\" to
    \"we should use free fonts\". I mentioned some other avenues, and would offer
    the crux of it as: sometimes a better solution than not spending any money might
    actually be spending <em>more</em> money.  :-)\r\n\r\n* Perhaps even agenda-drivenly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 23:23:51'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\nI apologize but I'm still not following. Who/what is ignoring
    users and what changes more slowly (please be specific)?"
  created: '2012-09-29 23:52:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_web_browsers\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems\r\nIt
    doesn't matter that Chrome is at #1, you still have to make sure your site works
    properly (or at least adequately) on Chrome, IE, Firefox and Safari (at least)
    on Windows7, Vista, XP, OSX, iOS and Android (at least).\r\n\r\nAlso, in a year
    it's much more likely that Chrome will not be on top than the possibility that
    there will be a new browser/OS to [not] worry about.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 00:03:41'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\nNot true. You only need to make sure your site works depending
    on your user base. 3% of users of my portfolio site use IE which allows me to
    completely disregard it. What I do is add a redirect to a page that asks the person
    to install the Chrome Frame or I can simply just say that the site doesn't support
    IE 6 thru IE 8. I even asked a W3C member if I needed to support up to IE 8 and
    she said no.\r\n\r\n<strong>Edit:</strong> I do agree that your site should at
    least support the latest of all the major browsers (IE 9, Chrome, Firefox, iOS)."
  created: '2012-09-30 00:40:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>You only need to make sure your site works depending on your
    user base.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI certainly agree - but that's simply a refinement
    of the stance I'm advocating. For example if you're making a site for a Bentley
    dealership you shouldn't worry about 800\xD7600 displays; but if it's a site about
    the Aakash, you do.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand: maybe your portfolio site isn't
    getting IE people because you're not supporting that browser properly? And/or
    you might be doing something [else] wrong if you're only getting ~10% of the people
    using IE.\r\n\r\nYou can dislike something (like the historic intransigence of
    IE or the neighbor's teenager) but if you pretend it doesn't matter you end up
    the bigger loser.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I even asked a W3C member if I needed to
    support up to IE 8 and she said no.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nPlease ask me if you should
    be making Armenian fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 01:27:19'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>If you mean it's unlikely that an organization would pay for having a
    font made and then allow others to modify it, I agree.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not
    what I meant, and I note that there are libre fonts publicly available from Google,
    Adobe, soon Mozilla, and already a few nameless corporations with identity type
    in GWF; http://www.google.com/webfonts/specimen/Scada just went up this week in
    fact :)\r\n\r\n<em>But I was referring to internal modification: if you're worried
    about not being able to modify a non-libre font to make it work for you, commission
    one so you can do with it what you like.</em>\r\n\r\nBut 'internal' fonts almost
    inevitably become external because @font-face, as John Hudson is known to opine
    :-)\r\n\r\nAnd that is almost what I meant: that if an organisation modifies a
    libre font intending for it to be 'internal' then they will likely soon find themselves
    distributing it externally to anyone who visits their website -- thus paying for
    having a font developed and then allowing others to modify it. Obviously if its
    original work, not derived from an existing libre font's outlines, then they can
    choose to make it libre or non libre for other users, while due to title ownership
    it remains libre for them.\r\n\r\n<em>The problem with the passage I quoted is
    that it jumps too conveniently (Perhaps even agenda drivenly.)</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely
    agenda drivenly ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>from \"we can't use retail fonts\" to \"we should
    use [libre] fonts\"</em>\r\n\r\nSeems logical to me. \r\n\r\n<em>I mentioned some
    other avenues, and would offer the crux of it as: sometimes a better solution
    than not spending any money might actually be spending more money. :-)</em>\r\n\r\nSpending
    more money results in libre fonts! :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>So, I guess a no, unless
    you want leave the standards.</em>\r\n\r\nAlas, I chatted to Tab Atkins about
    making the kind of overlays that this thread is about part of CSS3 about 2 years
    ago, and then never wrote a concrete proposal as he suggested, and I guess that
    now its too late to add something like that. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 02:13:23'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\nIt seems you're talking about resolution when I'm talking
    about the standards IE doesn't support such as CSS3 or HTML5. With respect to
    resolution, this is why we have media queries.\r\n\r\nActually my site at the
    moment is only 1 page which shows my logo heading and email. It supports IE pretty
    well. I am in the development stage to release my new one that will not support
    IE 8 or less based on my user analytics. I'm also a former web designer.\r\n\r\nIt's
    about the browser not supporting the latest technology and in return making developers
    waste time just to get something to work correctly with hacks. It's about supporting
    innovation. And tell that to Microsoft when they themselves recently have encouraged
    others to use a different browser because of major vulnerabilities in theirs (IE
    5 I think, up to IE 9)."
  created: '2012-09-30 02:24:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dave, I don't think we're disagreeing on too many points, but for some reason
    I am failing to explain my original complaint... Let me try this:\r\n\r\nYou want
    to do layered type. You can't use virtually any retail font because you're not
    allowed to redistribute* a modified font (but more below). So you figure to use
    a libre font. Sure. But there's another way: pay somebody to make a font for you
    which you can do anything you want with. Why would you spend money when you technically
    don't have to? The usual reasons: design quality (there's still a difference there
    between free and not) and exclusivity.\r\n\r\n* For the sake of argument working
    with the \"@font-face implies distribution\" stance.\r\n\r\nBTW if @font-face
    does imply redistribution, then you're breaking the EULA even if you don't modify
    it, right? What I mean is: if a font house doesn't mind @font-face they won't
    mind @font-face used for a modified version*. So using an imaginary impediment
    as an endorsement for libre fonts isn't sincere.\r\n\r\n* Assuming a house like
    Adobe that allows modification.\r\n\r\nLibre fonts do have a role to play, especially
    concerning this layering business. But \"proprietary fonts always forbid redistributing
    modified versions\" remains misleading, exaggerating the centrality of libre fonts.
    There is another way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 02:26:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>you're talking about resolution</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI was just
    using an obvious example from web design to support your point about designing
    for an audience.\r\n\r\nQuestion: isn't it important to try to figure out why
    ~90% of IE users are not visiting your site?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It's about supporting
    innovation.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's certainly honorable. I hope you find [enough]
    clients willing to sacrifice a chunk of potential users for that cause.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 02:37:59'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\n<blockquote>Isn't it important to try to figure out why
    ~90% of IE users are not visiting your site?</blockquote>\r\n(97% to be exact)
    - Why would I waste time to do that when my current website works fine in IE?
    Also, how would you propose actually going about that? It's not important.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    hope you find [enough] clients who agree.</blockquote>\r\nAnd I'd love for you
    to read what a client would say if you asked them why they wanted to support IE
    6 or IE 7. I bet their answer would be something along the lines of \"IE 6  and
    7 is still somewhat popular\", which is false. Or, \"I want it to work on everything\".
    But as Lea Verou has said, if you charged the client to do the work for their
    site to support those versions, I bet most wouldn't want to. Unless the clients'
    analytics show they have a sufficient IE user base, there is no reason to support
    anything but the latest IE version.\r\n\r\nPlease read this. \r\nhttp://www.smashingmagazine.com/2012/07/10/dear-web-user-please-upgrade-your-browser/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 03:19:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Since this is not a web design forum, I should stop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 03:22:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There's an obvious sense in which @font-face involves a kind of 'redistribution'
    in that the font file, in whatever format, is served from one place and ends up
    being cached some place else. But I don't think this broad use of 'redistribution'
    is very helpful to discussion, since it misses the point about which someone who
    wishes to restrict redistribution is most likely to be concerned, i.e. the use
    to which the font is put. Font makers and vendors are right to be concerned about
    @font-face, both in terms of web served fonts and as part of epub packages, in
    that the font files are out-and-about and are exposed to various kinds of unlicensed
    use. But the purpose for which they are served or packaged is not to redistribute
    them for use -- creating new documents, setting new text --, whether licensed
    or unlicensed, but to make them available <em>to be read.</em> Distribution of
    the font file is a by product of that intention.\r\n\r\nIf someone sends me an
    email asking is he can redistribute one of my fonts, I know what kind of question
    that is and while details may vary I know, generally speaking, what it implies:
    making the font available to some third party for use. If someone is wondering
    if he is able to serve the font as a web font, that is what he asks. He doesn't
    ask if he can redistribute the font, because there's a common sense use in which
    that term doesn't include web font serving any more than it included PDF embedding.
    We can and should have sensible discussions in such terms, mindful, yes, of both
    the legal specificity of license agreements and the technical obviousness of a
    file being copied to some remote location via @font-face, but not ignoring common
    sense understandings."
  created: '2012-09-30 03:31:20'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: I apologize if I'm off topic (perhaps I can move this comment elsewhere) but
    why do we even need web font distributors such as Typekit? From what I've seen
    they all seem to use base64 encoding with @font-face.
  created: '2012-09-30 03:49:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's not a terribly semantic nor accessible technique, though. \r\n\r\nFor
    instance, to make a headline:\r\n\r\n\"This is a Headline!\"\r\n\r\nAn '8 layered
    font' using this technique would actually have this for markup:\r\n\r\nThis is
    a Headline!\r\nThis is a Headline!\r\nThis is a Headline!\r\nThis is a Headline!\r\nThis
    is a Headline!\r\nThis is a Headline!\r\nThis is a Headline!\r\nThis is a Headline!\r\n\r\nKind
    of annoying especially if you are using something like a screen reader.\r\n\r\nGranted,
    at least for this type of typeface one would only be using it for display text,
    and there's certainly arguments for using it at times. But it's definitely a 'hacky'
    solution (and is by no means a 'new' solution, either). \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 06:59:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"As far as I know, browsers don't follow standards. Instead, standards follow
    the most popular browsers.\"\r\n\r\nIt's both. Always has been, and probably always
    will be. Standards are made, browsers adopt them to varying degrees. Browsers
    make custom features. The Standards group adopts them to varying degrees. \r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 07:04:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Chris: Until browser support for WOFF and Opentype is commonplace, web font
    distributors like Typekit, Webtype, WebINK etc. simplify something very advanced
    (a basic four font family requires at least 16 font files + heaps of code). Then,
    there is the layer of security you mention. Besides, subscription pricing makes
    it easier to buy (lease) than it is to steal.'
  created: '2012-09-30 08:39:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"It's both.\"\r\n\r\nI thought there's three: Browsers don't follow standards.
    Standards follow browsers. Browsers follow browsers.\r\n\r\n\"Until browser support
    for WOFF and Opentype is commonplace, ... (a basic four font family requires at
    least 16 font files + heaps of code)\"\r\n\r\n...tip of the fontberg."
  created: '2012-09-30 14:28:31'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>frode frank</em>\r\nWhat sort of code are we talking about? Isn't it
    just @font-face or am I missing something?"
  created: '2012-09-30 16:57:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: the "24" looks better with the white hangout.  Sometimes a person just wants
    to do stuff that is outside the box ;-)
  created: '2012-09-30 17:04:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, Chris\u2014 What is cool behavior for nonconformist Greeks is frowned
    upon by cat owners\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-30 18:15:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: LOL!!!
  created: '2012-09-30 19:33:37'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@font-face isn\u2019t \"just\". Adding a background image is one line of
    CSS. (And herein lies a hopeful request for future versions of WOFF: wrapping
    multiple fonts in one file. Not sure if it makes sense though.)"
  created: '2012-09-30 19:50:16'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>frode frank</em>\r\nWell sure it's not as simple as applying a background-image
    but it's certainly not as difficult as applying a border-image. But then again,
    I guess it depends on the knowledge one has with CSS.\r\n\r\nSyntax:\r\n<code>@font-face
    {\r\n\tfont-family: 'MyFontFamily';\r\n\tsrc: url('myfont-webfont.eot?#iefix')
    format('embedded-opentype'), \r\n\t     url('myfont-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    \r\n\t     url('myfont-webfont.ttf')  format('truetype'),\r\n\t     url('myfont-webfont.svg#svgFontName')
    format('svg');\r\n}</code>"
  created: '2012-09-30 20:33:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't forget \"there is the layer of security you mention\"...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-30 20:37:27'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "I think what I'm trying to get at is, can't we base64 encode ourselves? Do
    we really need a web font distributor to do this for us? \r\n\r\nLet's say that
    Typekit allows this. They could have a form where we choose the fonts we need
    and after purchase it lets us download them. The form then asks us to paste in
    the url where the fonts are hosted (on our own server obviously) then generates
    the css and base64 encodes it for us to paste in our CSS file.\r\n\r\nAm I the
    only one who dislikes the whole \"leasing\" idea?"
  created: '2012-09-30 20:54:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Sorry Chris. I don\u2019t mean that I don\u2019t understand how to do it,
    just that there are so many variables (multiply that code by x members of a family,
    what happens if there are more than four members to a family? which browsers support
    which files? which browsers will download which files? what happens if you have
    a font file installed locally with the same name? which browsers can handle postscript
    based web fonts? which files am I allowed to upload to a server? how do I stop
    others from downloading the files? +++), that implementing web fonts is a hurdle
    for many."
  created: '2012-09-30 21:47:13'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>frode frank</em>\r\nYeah, you're right. Would be nice if we had one font
    format."
  created: '2012-09-30 21:53:02'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>So you figure to use a libre font. Sure. But there's another way: pay
    somebody to make a font for you which you can do anything you want with.</em>
    \r\n\r\nRight, and that is also a libre font. :-)\r\n\r\n<em>if a font house doesn't
    mind @font-face they won't mind @font-face used for a modified version (Assuming
    a house like Adobe that allows modification.)</em>\r\n\r\nI totally disagree :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\"proprietary
    fonts always forbid redistributing modified versions\" remains misleading</em>\r\n\r\nI
    let the site authors know about this thread, maybe they'll update the page :-)\r\n\r\n<em>I
    think what I'm trying to get at is, can't we base64 encode ourselves?</em>\r\n\r\nCheck
    what you get base64 encoded when requesting the CSS from different browsers; you'll
    get different formats, and you may get different versions of the font in various
    formats too - hints stripped for platforms that don't use them, say. Serving webfonts
    has a lot of 'hidden complexity' if you want to do it really well; its an iceberg,
    as dberlow says. If you don't want to use a web font service, MyFonts and FontSpring
    and others allow you to download 'self hosting' packs with all the various formats,
    and CSS templates to get you going. \r\n\r\n\r\n@aluminum \r\n\r\nThe duplication
    of content for style is obviously heinous, but can only be solved properly by
    making the overlay a part of the style system itself. Having the duplication happen
    in memory, using JavaScript to modify the DOM as with colorfont.js, rather than
    happen on disk as with the original article at the top of the thread, is the next
    best thing. "
  created: '2012-10-01 03:23:57'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: Thanks, Abattis. I was debating whether to cancel my subscription to Typekit
    and go forward with MyFonts. I think i'll do just that.
  created: '2012-10-01 03:34:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>that is also a libre font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n?\r\nNo, because
    you're the only one who's allowed to use it (nevermind modify it). It's actually
    more restrictive than a retail font.\r\n\r\nAnyway the main thing is that it costs
    money, in fact quite a bit of it. Although I agree there's some commendable social
    altruism at play here (like in your case) the sad truth is that much of the justification
    for \"libre\" comes directly from the good ol' urge to save money. There's a lot
    of opportunistic euphemism at play here (what else is new).\r\n\r\nAnd this is
    in fact my core complaint, because saving money hurts culture. I don't give a
    rat's behind about the over-the-hill pricks who don't want to change the way they
    make and sell type.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I totally disagree</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
    might be right. But are you basing that on actual research? It's not like there
    are many font houses that allow modification to begin with. If you haven't already,
    maybe you should ask the ones that do.\r\n\r\nChristopher, you might have lost
    me, but: are you saying you don't mind sacrificing the well-being of people making
    good fonts for you in order to save a bit of money? I admit that I might be totally
    off here though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-01 04:33:54'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\nAbsolutely not. I don't mind supporting Type Designers
    for their work. Although, I would rather pay the foundry or designer directly.
    \r\n\r\nThe issue is that I don't want to lease something. I want to own. Typekit
    prevents this."
  created: '2012-10-01 04:57:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I don't give a rat's behind about the over-the-hill pricks who don't
    want to change the way they make and sell type</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure whether
    I resemble that remark, or not. OTOH, \u201Copportunistic euphemism\u201D describes
    American culture to a tee. I am so conflicted\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-01 04:59:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Anybody who wants to stop adapting needs to have kids who can take care of
    the old romantic. In fact part of the problem in the US is that kids leave the
    nest way too early and usually never look back.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-01 05:12:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" I would rather pay the foundry or designer directly\"\r\nIn this day and
    age, many designers are their own foundries. The major distributers also have
    resale arrangements with the small foundries.  If you wish to deal directly with
    the original source, you should be able to do so quite easily."
  created: '2012-10-01 05:17:09'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>dezcom</em>\r\nUnless it has to do with web fonts."
  created: '2012-10-01 05:24:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "If you can hold your breath a little while longer, I might\u2019ve got something
    for you to \u201Cown\u201D instead of lease -- directly from the designer/foundry. "
  created: '2012-10-01 08:03:14'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>frode frank</em>\r\nSarcasm?"
  created: '2012-10-01 09:36:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: No, absolutely not.
  created: '2012-10-01 13:05:32'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Frode: <blockquote>request for future versions of WOFF: wrapping multiple
    fonts in one file.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA TTC file inside a WOFF wrapper should
    work, shouldn\u2019t it? Only drawback is that authoring tools for the TrueType
    Collection format are very rare ..."
  created: '2012-10-01 13:50:12'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>frode frank</em>\r\nCan you elaborate on that?"
  created: '2012-10-01 15:35:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@abattis \r\n\r\nMy gut says rendering the duplication with JS is a better
    option, but, at the same time, software and operating systems are getting much
    more robust when it comes to assistive technologies and are becoming more and
    more capable of dealing with rich JS interfaces...which, I suppose, could then
    be further remedied by proper implementation of ARIA attributes. I'd have to ponder
    that some more...\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-01 16:05:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'As I said: hold your breath just a little while longer! I''m busy cooking
    up a delightful dish for you all.'
  created: '2012-10-01 16:19:07'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>frode frank</em>\r\nLooking forward to it."
  created: '2012-10-01 16:29:47'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Proper ARIA attributes is something that I discussed with the color.js authors
    when I suggested the idea to them. If its not implemented yet, I hope it will
    be soon :)
  created: '2012-10-02 17:50:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://blog.typekit.com/2012/11/06/hwt-american-chromatic-from-hamilton-wood-type-foundry/\r\n\r\nFrom:
    http://blog.fontshop.com/2012/12/13/type-trends-polychromatic-type/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-19 17:31:10'
date: '2012-09-26 19:04:19'
title: Web text layering for real?

---
