---
author:
  name: Typogruffer
  picture: 125697
body: "Hey guys,\r\n\r\nI have been visiting the websites of some typeface designers
  who regularly answer here so that i can get a feel of what they do and all. But
  most of the websites look ghastly. They are very difficult on the eyes. I am not
  going to take any names here (they are very very famous in these forums) but what
  is the point in setting the type at 8 pt? and the colors/graphics are not really
  appealing.  Why?\r\n\r\nRegards\r\ntypogruffer"
comments:
- author:
    name: kireonstewartpolmer-spammer
  body: "I'm here because I want to learn various prospects of web designing. These
    days the demand of web design and graphics work is very high and I would like
    to keep on with quality works. So far I've good experience here and thank you
    everyone for sharing crucial opinion of web design experience. I'm looking forward
    for latest discussion. Carry on. http://www.realseocompany.com/web-design/\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 10:09:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mine sucks for a number of reasons, not least that it's over 12 years old.
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nBut -as you imply- I'm not alone... Why? Because designing type and
    designing a site require vastly different skills and talents (it's rare for a
    single individual to enjoy both) and too many of us try to do it ourselves instead
    of biting the bullet and hiring a bona fide site designer. This is probably generally
    due to a combination of saving money (type design is not highly lucrative) and
    a certain pride in designing things ourselves.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 03:38:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Same reason great architects have ugly web sites.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 05:11:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That\u2019s not a fair comment.\r\nIf you\u2019re not prepared to name names,
    your sweeping generalization damns everyone by implication.\r\nI for one can\u2019t
    possibly have an ugly web site, as it\u2019s only had one page, a brief \u201Cunder
    construction\u201D, for quite some time.\r\nMark Simonson\u2019s site is beautifully
    detailed, and how can you possibly diss Berlow\u2019s?!\u2014Webtype.com is state
    of the art web legibility, and Font Bureau is squeaky clean.\r\n\r\nI also don\u2019t
    think that it\u2019s necessary for a foundry site to have \u201Cappealing\u201D
    graphics, as that can get in the way of showing the fonts. Foundry site design
    should be understated. Functionality is more important.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 06:17:53'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Perhaps you're not looking hard enough, or your standards/tastes are different
    than mine. Some type designers' sites are more technically ambitious than others,
    but there are plenty good-looking examples out there, even among one- or two-person
    shops: Eric Olson (Process), Kris Sowersby (Klim), Mark Simonson (MS Studio),
    James Montalbano (Terminal Design), Mark von Bronkhorst (MVB Fonts), Dino Dos
    Santos (DSType), Tomas Brousil (Suitcase Type), etc.\r\n\r\nNick, I'm sure your
    site will be worthy of mention once it's back up. :)"
  created: '2012-10-05 06:21:06'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: There are tools that do not rely on a user to know development. Such as Wordpress
    (.com), Squarespace, Cargo, etc. Anyway, I have to agree with <em>Nick</em> on
    this. At least give examples if you're going to criticize.
  created: '2012-10-05 06:41:48'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> ghastly \u2013 famous\r\n\r\nTypogruffer, you MUST had me in mind, don\u2019t
    you?\r\nCome up.\r\n:-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Typogruffer
      picture: 125697
    body: "You website is not ghastly( i am using it in the real literal sense).\r\nI
      can not understand much of your website as it is in German i guess?\r\n But,
      the links like  Zeitschrift SIGNA and \xFCber Signographie can use a font size
      of 12pt.\r\n"
    created: '2012-10-05 10:25:01'
  - author:
      name: Typogruffer
      picture: 125697
    body: .
    created: '2012-10-05 10:27:13'
  created: '2012-10-05 08:32:28'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "Yeah, mine is pretty dated. I need to update if I could find the time :)\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 14:56:28'
- author:
    name: Typogruffer
    picture: 125697
  body: "Okay i am taking names here. And i hope this is not going to offend anyone.
    As i have mentioned famous people, i have Hrant here and John Hudson( two of the
    most knowledgeable people around here). Oldnick's website just has a plea to get
    him out of a tough situation(i hope he is out now) Also the foundries like emtype.net(too
    small font size) and some websites have just the name of the typeface designer(though
    set in a beautiful typeface). What i should have asked is do people get any customers
    from websites and if they do then they should not be put off by bad designs/small
    text.\r\nUPDATE: The type foundry P22's website looks bad too. http://www.p22.com/index.html"
  created: '2012-10-05 15:05:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The site leading to sales: a search for \"Armenian fonts\" (the only angle
    I could hope to really leverage) is hijacked by free crap, so I have to believe
    that the main advantage of having a bad site is in comparison to not having one
    at all. A business not having a site is worse than a person not having a cellphone*
    in terms of people thinking you're some kind of freak they shouldn't touch with
    a ten foot composing stick.\r\n\r\n* Which I know because that's the case with
    me... Although I admit to having my eyes on the imminent Samsung Note II.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 16:40:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I for one can\u2019t possibly have an ugly web site</em>\u2026\r\n\r\nReally?
    How adorable. What a maroon."
  created: '2012-10-05 18:08:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nick, it might be a good idea if you stopped posting if you can\u2019t do
    so in a civil manner.\r\nI mean that sincerely, and I\u2019m only saying it because
    it\u2019s unlikely the moderators have called you to task on all the vulgar insults
    you\u2019re throwing around.\r\nI don\u2019t think people here are interested
    in slanging matches, and you\u2019re seriously lowering the tone of the place.\r\nAs
    all those who\u2019ve been to your website know, you\u2019ve had dif\uFB01culties
    recently.\r\nI would imagine that some people in the industry would be prepared
    to help you out, but it\u2019s a small community, and you\u2019re not making friends
    with your present antics. \r\n\r\nWould you be interested in doing production
    work for other foundries?\r\nIt doesn\u2019t generate passive income, but it\u2019s
    cash in hand, and lots of type designers mix it with their retail development.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 18:32:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, please don't be abusive for your own kicks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 18:47:30'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: This is something I've noticed too.  What synaptic connections in the brain
    would make one great at designing type but not good at graphic design (perhaps
    web design is a bit of a misnomer here)?
  created: '2012-10-05 20:11:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There\u2019s no standard pro\uFB01le for a type designer, you can come at
    it from many directions.\r\nSame thing for graphic design."
  created: '2012-10-05 20:32:01'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "There does seem to be some evidence here that not all type designers are
    blessed with as much general graphic design talent as you Nick.\r\n\r\nTake Tankard's
    site for example. That old lacey wallpapery looking background?  Very British
    and all, but damn its ugly.  I feel like I'm in some old english row home, and
    all I wanna do is paint over the wallpaper.\r\n\r\nOf course one shouldn't assume
    that all type designers have designed their own websites."
  created: '2012-10-05 20:38:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The 'old lacey wallpapery looking background' on Jeremy's site is a complex
    pattern that he worked out many years ago that is used in various ways throughout
    his print and web materials. For those people who have followed his work for a
    long time, it is a very strong brand association, so whether you consider it 'ugly'
    or not is sort of irrelevant to whether it constitutes good design.
  created: '2012-10-05 20:53:21'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Like Nick said.  People have different talents, training, experience, etc.
  created: '2012-10-05 20:53:35'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: '[duplicate deleted]'
  created: '2012-10-05 20:54:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I would say that a good type designer -who makes tools- needs [to enjoy]
    a form of thought that a graphic designer -who makes finished things- does not;
    and of course the same sort of thing (for example an appreciation of color) applies
    in the other direction. One person can be blessed with both sets of talents, but
    it's simply statistically rare. Most people can't do <em>either</em> very well!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 21:12:59'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>The 'old lacey wallpapery looking background' on Jeremy's site is a complex
    pattern that he worked out many years ago that is used in various ways throughout
    his print and web materials. For those people who have followed his work for a
    long time, it is a very strong brand association, so whether you consider it 'ugly'
    or not is sort of irrelevant to whether it constitutes good design.</em>\r\n\r\nSee
    this is what I was trying to get at when I said only the end result is important.
    \ Knowing all that information doesn't make it any less ugly to the eye."
  created: '2012-10-05 21:41:09'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> One person can be blessed with both sets of talents, \r\n> but it's simply
    statistically rare\r\n\r\nWhile talent is important, I think it's more a matter
    of training and experience. A graphic designer who studied web design in college
    and designs websites every day is probably going to be much better at it than
    a type designer who rarely does web design.  And vice versa, of course.  "
  created: '2012-10-05 21:43:33'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: How is it statistically rare?
  created: '2012-10-05 21:56:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: If you mean Commercial Type (Christian Schwartz with Paul Barnes), I'd say
    it's one of the cleanest, most efficiently designed foundry sites out there. The
    type speaks for itself, no extra fluffing necessary, I really admire it.
  created: '2012-10-05 22:14:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, it's hard to figure out whether talent or skill (AKA training & experience)
    is more important (especially since it's the former than often leads one to the
    latter) but I certainly agree that skill is very important (which is why I mentioned
    it in my first post - I just forgot later on).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Knowing all
    that information doesn't make it any less ugly to the eye.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOnly
    for eyes that are deaf.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>How is it statistically rare?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf
    let's say 10% of people are good at one thing, and 10% are good at something else,
    1% will be good at both. Now, there is some overlap between type design and graphic
    design so the numbers wouldn't be so drastic, but what I'm saying is the overlap
    is far less than it might seem.\r\n\r\nRyan, my work is hard to find online because
    it's hard to find anywhere: it's niche, but most of all there frankly isn't much
    of it (and most of it isn't worth publicizing much). BTW that's probably why some
    people get flustered and leave Typophile, saying that I don't \"deserve\" the
    airtime. I can explain why that logic is flawed, but I'd rather not turn this
    thread into a discussion of me.\r\n\r\nOne thing to keep in mind here is that
    the more niche you are the less likely a \"fancy\" website matters. We're not
    selling Toyotas here. Consider this: what kind of people would spontaneously decide
    to hire John H. if he had a highly sophisticated site? That's not the type of
    customer he's likely to be useful to. Word of mouth* remains essential for type
    designers.\r\n\r\n* Which luckily no longer has to be done in person.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>slow
    down the speed</blockquote>\r\n\r\nUse a medium the way it serves you, and don't
    try to bend it into something it can't do for you. If you're selling print fonts
    the best -and perhaps only- thing a site can do for you is leave a positive first
    impression; the rest has to be done via other channels.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 22:28:10'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: they just need to slow down the speed at which it changes (one font into another).
    I need at least 4 times the current length to evaluate one of their type samples.
    Maybe I'm just slow. :D
  created: '2012-10-05 22:30:19'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "type is a still thing.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nExplanation is Explanation. Explanation
    is not Great Art.  \r\n\r\nIn fact to a bewildering extent, Great Art is unexplainable.\r\n\r\nEven
    an attempt to explain art exits the world of art and enters into the world of
    culture."
  created: '2012-10-05 22:40:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Great Art? I thought we were talking about graphic design and, more specifically,
    website design. I made the point re Jeremy's pattern design that it is a very
    successful piece of branding design, and whether you think it is ugly -- I don't
    -- is irrelevant to a discussion of its design merits, because it wouldn't be
    a Jeremy Tankard website without it.
  created: '2012-10-05 22:52:18'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Sorry, went off on a tangent there...
  created: '2012-10-05 23:01:49'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Also, \r\n\r\nSchwartz's site is presented in a rather uniteresting setting,
    and changes so fast you can't really judge what you're looking at before it changes
    into something else.\r\n\r\nFont Font's site is visually decent, but cumbersome
    as far as user interaction.\r\n\r\nHrant's work is like nonexistent on the web.
    \ I had to go looking for fonts he designed, using carefully designed google queries,
    rather than simply being served all his work upon googling his name, other than
    the few on his site, that is.\r\n\r\nShinntype has been down for like what, half
    a year now?\r\n\r\nAnd dont even get me started on how shody my own web pressence
    is..."
  created: '2012-10-05 23:10:36'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: How many of the aforementioned websites use webfonts?
  created: '2012-10-06 17:04:00'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "In my culture exist a famous phrase\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\"In the smith's house,
    wood knife\" (\"En casa de herrero, cuchillo de palo\")</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMy
    commom sense explain me this because exist at least few powerful reason for this
    situation:\r\n1. Web desing is very different technical area compared to type
    design.\r\n2. Most type designer spend long long time working at type design and
    web design also need long time working at.\r\n3. Most sell activity of type designers
    occur through another bigger well designed websites (specialist on font  sell
    business only).\r\n4. The cost of good web design most of the time is high to
    type designers profits.\r\n5. Web design (code managing) look a problem so complicated,
    and solve that by simplest (but ugly) way.\r\n\r\nI guess the list is bigger but
    so leave this until here...\r\n\r\nPedro"
  created: '2012-10-06 18:51:41'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Mine doesn't use webfonts yet, but will be soon. \r\n\r\nI've done my own
    website design in the past, and I think I was okay at it, but as I've moved more
    of my focus to type design, I've fallen behind on web design and production techniques.
    I also find that the more time I spend working on fonts, the less time (and interest)
    I have for working on my site.\r\n\r\nConsequently, I'm working with an outside
    web designer. (Not sure when the new site will launch.)\r\n\r\nIncidentally, the
    Commercial Type site (which I think is very nice) was not designed by Schwartz
    or Barnes, but by an outside firm."
  created: '2012-10-06 18:55:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What do you guys think of the OurType site?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-06 19:01:03'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It's a bit too whizzy for me :)
  created: '2012-10-06 19:06:43'
- author:
    name: Typogruffer
    picture: 125697
  body: '@hrant: It''s good but not my type of web design. I didn''t like those try
    and buy buttons trailing my cursor (kinda irritating actually).'
  created: '2012-10-06 20:56:23'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "> Nick: <em>\"...if you can\u2019t do so in a civil manner.</em>\"\r\n\r\nThe
    pot calling the kettle black."
  created: '2012-10-06 22:50:16'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I kind of like the OurType site as fa as user interaction, but feel its too
    distracting for type. It'd be great for advertising some new MTV reality show.
  created: '2012-10-07 01:13:08'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: .
  created: '2012-10-07 01:14:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: In my case, my old dated and never completed website was done back before
    CSS was so capable and screen resolution was much less.  That makes everything
    look quite small by today's standards.  Back then, I was tech-savvy enough to
    do table-based web designs but have not kept up with the times and practices today.  I
    just don't have time to learn all the new web stuff so it lays there like time
    capsule, frozen to change.
  created: '2012-10-07 01:42:00'
- author:
    name: Typogruffer
    picture: 125697
  body: '@dezcom: I can''t see the specimens of your typefaces like Leporello, Weimar
    Plakat 1923 etc'
  created: '2012-10-07 03:01:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I can't see the specimens of your typefaces like Leporello,\"\r\n\r\nI
    never posted them because I never released them. I told you my site was a dead
    time capsule ;-)\r\nYou will also notice that fonts I have released are not even
    mentioned :-/"
  created: '2012-10-07 03:44:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Steve: \"The pot calling the kettle black.\"\r\n\r\nCorrect me if I'm wrong,
    but I don't think I'm in the habit of insulting other Typophile posters."
  created: '2012-10-07 05:27:58'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "No, Nick, you're not \"in the <em><strong>habit</em></strong> of insulting
    other Typophile posters.\" \r\n\r\nI like you. I have your Goodchild font. But
    I did see at least one really nasty exchange that almost convinced me to not buy
    any more of your fonts. It was so over the top that I never forgot it."
  created: '2012-10-07 11:57:28'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I can only find three font families from you, Dez. Are there more?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/foundry/Dezcom/"
  created: '2012-10-07 22:08:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: I didn't have my own site for 10 years because I was half-heartedly messing
    about trying to come up with some designs myself. They were all crap. I realised
    I didn't have the skills required to make it how I sort of imagined. I finally
    got enough money together to hire some professionals to do it, and I'm glad I
    did. I couldn't possibly have put it all together with the functionality plus
    e-commerce. I tried to be a jack-of-all-trades, but realised I wasn't. Sometimes
    you have to realise that you can't do everything, and if you don't want to look
    like an amateur - hire a professional.
  created: '2012-10-08 10:46:40'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "This can't be...Nick(s), Andrea, Chris, the legends that faced down some
    of the trickiest opentype, and produced the finest contours I ever did clap eyes
    on are ceding defeat to writing some HTML? This makes me sad.\r\n\r\nI think y'all
    should get yourself some twitter bootstrap and start tinkering. The world can
    and will wait for you to complete the Hungarian extension to your typeface...come
    on, tell me the thought of showing off your typefaces with proper control over
    your line spacing, drop caps, ligatures and opentype features on the web doesn't
    make you all a little hot under the collar. Fix up! If anything web-design has
    gotten easier in the past three years...\r\nStrip everything right back, go for
    a minimum viable product and slowly introduce content back as you get more confident.\r\n\r\nFor
    the record...my site doesn't suck. I think. It sucks less than most anyway.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-08 13:28:43'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Very good point (and nice site, too). I would have said the same thing a
    few years ago.\r\n\r\nFor me, it is just a matter of how I want to spend my time.
    After years of doing my site myself, I just realized I would rather be working
    on fonts, and that I can afford to hire someone else to do the other stuff, someone
    who is better than me at it.\r\n\r\n(BTW, I like how you used my font Coquette
    in one of your very nice lettering pieces, except that you called it Cochin.)"
  created: '2012-10-08 15:33:27'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "Shucks, thanks Mark. I'm a huge fan of Coquette.\r\n\r\nTime is always a
    concern, and yup, I concur - if you can afford someone who is a specialist, then
    you definitely should.\r\nThat said, it seems HTML is fast becoming the universal
    format for wrapping and delivering text/information to the masses -  it's our
    duty to be fairly au fait with it's foibles and capabilities...\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-08 15:55:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote> it's our duty to be fairly au fait</blockquote>\r\n\r\nUh, just
    FYI, the text on your own site looks disturbingly\r\nblurry on a huge chunk of
    the world's computers...  :-/\r\n\r\nBTW, Macchu Pichu is cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-08 16:38:18'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "@hrant Thanks, that actually means a lot. Aw crap...off to browsershots.org
    for me then!\r\n\r\nedit: whilst trying to remove my boot from my mouth..."
  created: '2012-10-08 18:16:40'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: There really is no need to know any web programming other than very basic
    html.  I think you can even make a webpage right in Photoshop (and perhaps illustrator)
    now, right? And if not I know you can take a design from illustrator and import
    right into flash, keeping all the layers intact. So that means you can design
    everything visually in Illustrator, including your rollovers, etc, and very quickly
    use to flash to make your site.  To some extent, animation is more difficult,
    as well as adding ecommerce.
  created: '2012-10-08 19:47:14'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>_leigh</em>\r\n\r\n<blockquote>For the record...my site doesn't suck.
    I think. It sucks less than most anyway.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBy your site do you
    mean what you've ended up copying from Jessica Hische?  Your Material page (http://lifu.co.uk/materiel/)
    looks a lot like her Resource page (http://jessicahische.is/heretohelp/). As well
    as your Work page (http://lifu.co.uk/work/) --> http://jessicahische.is\r\n\r\nAnd...this
    lettering piece is quite similar to hers as well.\r\nhttp://lifu.co.uk/work/anna
    \r\n http://jessicahische.is/makingababyannouncement/"
  created: '2012-10-08 19:52:51'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "Photoshop is ideal for web designing. Illustrator more for vector work (icons,
    logo, etc). Flash is going away. A lot of mobile OS's are not supporting them.
    Safari (desktop version) doesn't even support Flash, if I'm not mistaken.\r\n\r\nYou
    should know at least HTML and CSS. jQuery would be great for animations."
  created: '2012-10-08 19:55:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>Photoshop is ideal for web designing.</blockquote>\r\nThat\u2019s
    quite debatable."
  created: '2012-10-08 19:55:31'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<blockquote>That\u2019s quite debatable.</blockquote>\r\nI'm going off what
    <strong>most</strong> use when designing for the web. Some prefer directly in
    the browser and others prefer Fireworks, Phtoshop, etc."
  created: '2012-10-08 20:00:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ideal and popular are not at all the same thing.\r\n\r\nFlash has its problems,
    but they're technical; much bigger is the social problem of a svengali forcing
    its deprecation just to make more money, and at the functional expense of users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-08 20:11:08'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>hrant</em>\r\n\r\nCorrect and I would argue that Photoshop is ideal which
    is possibly why it resulted in its popularity."
  created: '2012-10-08 20:27:48'
- author:
    name: _null
  body: "@chrisburton the Anna invitation is inexcusable - but it was the way it went
    down and it was for the love.\r\nThe materiel page I totally fess up to: http://lifu.co.uk/work/londontown\r\n\r\n\r\nWith
    regard to illustrator vs photoshop for web-design. I guess it's down to preference,
    although, with responsive things, you really need to go to code as soon as you
    can for layout.\r\nThe [[http://styletil.es|style tiles]] idea seems like the
    strongest method to decide looks and such.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-08 21:39:20'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Flash has always had compatibility problems.  But if it is going away, it
    is only because of HTML 5, which whenever it comes around to being fully implemented,
    could nicely replace it.  Adobe realizes this, and has implemented a 'render'
    as html5 function.\r\n\r\nMy real point is that nobody can really use the \"i
    havent been keeping up on the technological changes enough\" excuse because one
    really doesn't need to know much new coding ides, such as jquery, or php, or javascript.
    \ Programming is a very left brain activity, and visual art is a very right brain
    activity.  There are of course, lots of exceptions to that rule, and there are
    people who excel equally in abstract mathematical thinking and visual artisiticness,
    but they are rare."
  created: '2012-10-08 21:58:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<blockquote>Safari (desktop version) doesn't even support Flash, if I'm not
    mistaken.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot true. Apple just stopped shipping the Flash
    plug in on new Macs. You can still download and install it if you want, and it
    still works in Safari just as it always has."
  created: '2012-10-08 23:10:04'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: Thanks, Mark. Now I wish I hadn't removed Safari. It seems there is no download
    button for Windows.
  created: '2012-10-08 23:25:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Flash works on Safari fine for me with Lion.
  created: '2012-10-08 23:39:26'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<blockquote> no download button for Windows</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou can get
    it here:\r\nhttp://www.apple.com/safari/\r\n\r\nNot the most popular browser on
    Windows, from what I've heard."
  created: '2012-10-08 23:53:55'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>Mark</em>\r\n\r\nFrom what I've read, Apple for some reason isn't allowing
    downloads for Windows with Safari. There is no download button anywhere on that
    page.\r\n\r\nSee here: http://www.theverge.com/2012/7/25/3186086/safari-for-windows-references-removed"
  created: '2012-10-09 00:26:26'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Oh, well, like I said, not the most popular browser on Windows. Maybe they
    decided it wasn't worth it. From what I recall reading, back when it was released,
    the main justification for it was search revenue from Google.\r\n\r\nLooks like
    you can still get Safari 5 for Windows here: \r\nhttp://support.apple.com/kb/DL1531\r\n\r\nI
    just tried it in my Windows 7 VM and it worked."
  created: '2012-10-09 02:09:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Of course, but I was talking about Safari for Windows.
  created: '2012-10-09 02:31:11'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: '[Deleted. Sorry Mark I misread your post.]'
  created: '2012-10-09 02:34:24'
- author:
    name: Typogruffer
    picture: 125697
  body: '@everyone: using safari for mac is okay but using it on windows is taking
    things too far. The latest versions of Chrome and Firefox are more superior and
    faster than safari. IMO, Firefox 15.0.1 is the best iteration of Firefox till
    date(they changed a lot of code that used to cause it crash frequently). Stop
    using safari on windows and use chrome or Firefox.'
  created: '2012-10-09 02:34:40'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>Mark</em>\r\n\r\nThanks, I ended up using the link in the article in
    my previous post. The reason I need Safari is for testing my soon-to-be-released
    portfolio site."
  created: '2012-10-09 02:36:11'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<em>Typogruffer</em>\r\n\r\n Occasionally Firefox still freezes when I open
    it up and try to navigate to any website."
  created: '2012-10-09 04:57:08'
date: '2012-10-05 03:23:04'
title: Ugly websites of typeface designers

---
