---
author:
  name: Catharsis
  picture: 124507
body: "Here are a few sketches of a font idea that's been harrying me for a while
  now. I might have to sit down and make it at some point.\r\n\r\nIt basically started
  with that <strong>a</strong> and expanded from there. I see it as an implementation
  of fraktur-like concepts on a Garalde basis.\r\n\r\nThe name <em>Aurichalcum</em>
  is Latin for \u201Cbrass\u201D, and aims to capture that feeling of \u201CVictorian-style
  wood-and-brass science fiction engineering\u201D I'm getting from it. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aurichalcum_6112.jpeg]\r\n\r\nDo
  you think it has promise?  One of the main things that are keeping me from starting
  the making process is the daunting prospect of kerning that thing once it's done.
  Is there a good automatic kerning process available? I'm assuming the one included
  in FontForge doesn't quite cut it...?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: By the way, the character variants underlined in red are the ones I like best
    so far.
  created: '2012-10-05 12:02:35'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Nice.
  created: '2012-10-05 12:35:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's the type of thing we need - please do make it real.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-05 17:52:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: 'Interesting. Stop sketching, start digitising. '
  created: '2012-10-05 20:10:10'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Thanks for the encouragement.  :)  Here's a first experiment...  don't like
    the curves on the |d| and |b| yet, but I can certainly see it going somewhere.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abcdef_5592.png]"
  created: '2012-10-07 19:03:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looking at the \"c\" I see the big, central decision you'll have to make
    ASAP: figure out whether any glyph should be conventional. If you're going to
    have a mix, spend a good amount of time determining which letter should go to
    which side (preferably relying partly on letter frequencies). Or if you're ambitious
    implement OT code to give the user choices.\r\n\r\nMaybe don't fully connect the
    bowl of the \"a\". Or even have the bowl totally separated.\r\n\r\nTry to avoid
    symmetry like in the \"b\" and \"d\".\r\n\r\nTry an \"e\" with a split like in
    the \"f\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Catharsis
      picture: 124507
    body: "@ hrant: Yeah, I was planning on leaving a few glyphs conventional. Judging
      from my sketches, I expect |c i j l o s v z| to remain standard Garalde style
      simply because I can't seem to think of a satisfying way of introducing that
      fine-line substructure. They're just so inherently simple characters...  do
      tell me if you have any lightbulbs on those.\r\n\r\nOn the |a|: I tried that
      on paper and wasn't satisfied with it, but maybe I just didn't try enough. I
      do like the current |a|, though; it's a bit of a defining character for this
      font idea.\r\n\r\nOn |b| vs |d|: Well, they're not entirely symmetrical. I also
      just noticed my sketched |d| had the gap in its bowl on the top while the electronic
      one has it on the bottom; I guess I could change that, though it would just
      be a different kind of symmetry.  Just how much asymmetry are you suggesting?
      Making the |d| narrower than the |b|, for instance (apparently Garamond does
      that)? Or making up an entirely different alternate anatomy for |d|? I kinda
      like the bowl shape I have for |b| and was going to use it for |b p d| (and
      maybe go a little crazy on the |q|). If I have to make up a completely fresh
      design for |d| and |p|, I suspect they're going to turn out less pretty.\r\n\r\nOn
      the gapped |e|: I already tried that (see image), and I'm not quite sure how
      I feel about it. Incidentally, I'm not too fond of the gapped |f t| to begin
      with.  I might still change those.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/de_4838.png]"
    created: '2012-10-08 00:04:39'
  created: '2012-10-07 19:11:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think those narrow gaps are way too narrow in the digital version.
  created: '2012-10-07 20:03:29'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: The cross-bar(gap) of /f/ should be longer at the right.
  created: '2012-10-07 23:37:24'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "A bit more tweaking on the |b d|, and some new letters. Widened the gaps
    in the fiddly parts.\r\n\r\nI'm not quite sure about that |e| yet; I might end
    up with a regular epsilon-style cut.\r\n\r\nAs for the name, <strong>Aurichalcum</strong>
    is perhaps too technical. I might switch to <strong>Windrose</strong> or <strong>Navigator</strong>,
    though the latter will be hard to google.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a_h_5886.png]"
  created: '2012-10-08 02:07:28'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "And here's the first complete draft of lowercase. I tried to salvage the
    |q| from a failed previous font, but it doesn't quite fit.  I think I'll have
    to make a replacement that makes use of that thin \u201Cclockwork\u201D.  I might
    keep its shape quirky, though.\r\n\r\nOpinions?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/qbf_6594.png]"
  created: '2012-10-08 16:51:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Love the texture! Which is the hardest thing in such an effort.\r\nMore soon.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I actually like the name quite a bit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-08 16:54:41'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "This is the kind of type design I like! Setting up a system and then getting
    stuck in to the problem solving. I think you have a good start. I see the /n/
    as the key glyph to get the others working. For example, using the n structure
    as a starting point for /b/ it seems to me that at the moment the bowl is upside-down
    (same goes for d and p). The left stem of /n/ can also be used to make a pretty
    cool /i/ by extending the thin bit up into the tittle, and an /f/ by using it
    to form the crossbar. I'm sure none of this makes much sense so I did a quick
    sketch to show you what I mean:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inbfd_4517.JPG]\r\nWould
    the /y/ shape with the bottom chopped off make a more interesting /v/? Which would
    then help make a better /w/. Before seeing the whole alphabet in words, I thought
    your /w/ was an /n/.\r\nThe letters I think needing most work are the broken ones
    - t, f, s, z, and perhaps e (which is a bit too close to a Euro symbol at the
    moment IMO). I'm certain you can find a better solution for the /g/ too, and maybe
    the /o/ would be better left without the detail in the counter?"
  created: '2012-10-09 14:09:45'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: A recent Type ID reminded me of Isadora (http://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=isadora),
    which could be a reference (even if by contrast) for the possible construction
    of some letters.
  created: '2012-10-10 11:20:30'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Interesting! Thanks for the feedback.\r\n\r\n@ Dave: I can't say I like the
    |i| and |f| you propose. :\\  My goal is not to shoehorn a double stem into every
    letter; that would somewhat trivialize the overall concept of the font. \r\n\r\nYour
    proposals for |d b| are interesting; I'll definitely look into replacing some
    of those angled serifs with flat-footed ones. However, I liked the treatment of
    the bowls in those letters better in my version. Your proportions feel sleek and
    remind me of something contemporary like Quadraat, while I'm rather aiming at
    the generous, almost pompous, circle-based proportions I associate with compasses,
    naval steering wheels, and wood-and-brass engineering in general.  The unconventional
    architecture of my bowls also lend themselves better to the humanist diagonal
    stress, while yours rather feel modern to me.\r\n\r\nI agree that the broken |s
    z| feel contrived.  I might end up with regular Garalde designs for those letters.
    Likewise, I might return to the simple epsilon-style |e| that I had earlier. I
    do like my current |f t| designs, though, especially the fact that they have their
    crossbars on the same height but approach that height from opposite sides.\r\n\r\n@
    Riccardo: I can see a certain similarity, but the overall feel of the font is
    extremely different from mine. Isadora is downright... frilly. I do intend to
    give double stems to my capitals, though, to mimic fraktur-style capitals, so
    at least that's the same in Isadora."
  created: '2012-10-11 08:53:48'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Fun with capitals!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caps_4956.png]"
  created: '2012-10-12 21:24:22'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "What about a construction more like this, at least for |F|?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/F_6465.png]"
  created: '2012-10-13 12:31:51'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I have no idea how to design anything. I mean design as a process here. But
    as a visually aware human being \u2013 which is the only qualification I can claim
    supporting the legitimacy of my view \u2013 I absolutely adore this typeface!
    My first thoughts were \u201COh my god, is this good\u201D. "
  created: '2012-10-14 01:27:44'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Not to add to the noise, but this is quite lovely! I\u2019m going to be watching
    how this progresses\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-14 03:20:42'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Riccardo: I've tried out your architecture for |F|, but I'm not so happy
    with how it turns out... the thin piping adds weight to the lower half of the
    letter, making it looks somewhat clump-footed.  I suppose I'll have to take care
    to keep the piping mostly on the inside of the glyphs. \r\n\r\nI've closed off
    the tips of the crossbar, though, which I think helps.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FF_5607.png]\r\n\r\n@
    Flooce: I'm not a professional designer by any stretch either \u2014 I do astrophysics
    for a living \u2014 so by all means do voice your opinion.  :)  My \u201Cprocess\u201D
    is mainly trying to make pretty things, failing at first, and trying to learn
    from the feedback so I can make somewhat prettier things next time.  ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-14 14:32:22'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: 'With a grain of salt: To my eye, closing the /F/ that way isn''t helpful
    at all. Enclosing those spaces produces a hollow shape. Either return to the prior
    idea or make the middle crossbar one-stemmed and try something in the direction
    Riccardo suggested. Another option is completely cutting the shape, like you did
    with /e/ and /f/.'
  created: '2012-10-14 15:59:59'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Lex: Hmmm.  I see what you mean about the closing of |F|. Maybe I could
    cut the stem but leave the tips connected? Otherwise I'll just return to my first
    draft.\r\n\r\n\uFEFFMeanwhile, I've tried adapting the |c| and |s| more into the
    emerging style of the font. I think it works very well for the |c|, but I'm not
    convinced of the |s| yet.  I kept the split |z| because there is historical precedent
    for horizontal bars in that letter.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bosco_6208.png]\r\n\r\n@
    Riccardo: I've applied your proposed design to |L| instead \u2014 I think it works
    perfectly there.  :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/L_5731.png]\r\n\r\n@
    Dave: So you didn't like the original |w|? That architecture seems rather commonplace
    in Fraktur, and I'm also used to it from the handwriting in school, but I'm not
    sure how recognizable it is world-wide. In any case, the premise of this font
    is to use the overall shapes of Garalde, so I suppose I should remake this letter
    anyway.  I might keep the Fraktur-style |w| as an OpenType alternate.  How about
    this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/w_5986.png]"
  created: '2012-10-14 18:48:03'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "And here's the first draft of the complete alphabet. Numbers next...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a_Z_4525.png]"
  created: '2012-10-15 15:08:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow.\r\n\r\nI know it's hard, but release this quick before somebody copies
    it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 16:55:15'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Thanks for the heads-up.  :)\r\n\r\nJust for the record, what exactly constitutes
    a \u201Crelease\u201D?  I was thinking of keeping the font free for personal use,
    and just ask people who use it for commercial purposes for a donation. (Much as
    I like the idea of making money with type, I'm grateful for the many free fonts
    I've been using so far, and would like to repay the favor to some degree.)  At
    which point does a release \u201Ccount\u201D for legal purposes? Is an alphabet
    like the one above enough for the first version, with more letters coming soon?"
  created: '2012-10-15 17:10:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Repay whom? The people who make free fonts are not the ones who will benefit.
    And you will virtually never get a donation. Magnanimity is wonderful, but not
    if it stunts a promising future in type design; it's not like you'll get rich
    from it, but all humans are material creatures to some extent.\r\n\r\nIn retail,
    \"release\" means letting total strangers use it. BTW if you do it on MyFonts
    (which is easy) and somebody copies you and ends up on MyFonts too (which is statistically
    the most likely) you can ask MyFonts to take it down and they usually oblige.
    In the past year or so there have been 2-3 such cases thanks to Typophile. A drop
    in the bucket maybe, but: we've got your back.  :-)\r\n\r\nCharacter coverage:
    you can release a font with only alphanumerics, but try to complete at least one
    basic Unicode table.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-15 17:23:06'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Hmmm, you have a point there.  If I charge money for the font, I can put
    that into buying other people's fonts, which has the benefit of actually supporting
    people who make fonts.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if the font were free, I would
    have no qualms putting up a limited \u201Calpha version\u201D now in order to
    stake my claim, and keep adding more glyphs, ligatures, alternates, and careful
    kerning later. I'd feel bad asking money for an alpha version. (I'll probably
    go for iKern for the kerning, at any rate.) Also, I assume the odds of having
    my design stolen and copied are much lower when my font is freely available...?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Magnanimity
    is wonderful, but not if it stunts a promising future in type design; it's not
    like you'll get rich from it, but all humans are material creatures to some extent.</blockquote>\r\nWait,
    so does making free fonts stunt one's chances in type design? I do have a day
    job, so I'm not counting on making money with my fonts (though I admit it would
    be gratifying).\r\n\r\nAs for coverage: I intend to include all of Latin-1 eventually,
    but that's going to take some precious time."
  created: '2012-10-16 01:27:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, give out a beta version (which means it has known flaws that you intend
    to fix; alpha means it's known to fail spectacularly :-) for free, and even ask
    for feedback on it. When you finish it, sell it (maybe giving a discount to people
    who gave you valuable or at least non-trivial feedback).\r\n\r\nBeing copied is
    an honor, especially if you get the credit (which is not assured). But you have
    to balance that against income. If you don't expect income then being copied can
    only been good (even if you don't get explicit credit). However: you'd be harming
    type designers who do want to make money (which can even by a symbolic valuation
    of something you value - it doesn't have to make one's life much easier). Ergo:
    it's a social responsibility.\r\n\r\nAlso, can you predict the future? I can't.
    You don't know where a casual interest in something might lead, especially if
    life changes from under your feet.\r\n\r\nAt the very least you should charge
    a nominal amount just to erect a barrier against parasitic freeloading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-16 02:04:47'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "So you're saying giving away fonts for free actually harms type designers?
    \ Huh.  I never would have figured. When I see a font sell for dozens of dollars
    per cut, I assume it's such a high-quality product that it cannot be replaced
    by a free font. For me, free fonts were \u201Cgateway drugs\u201D to developing
    an interest in typography in the first place. I would have expected that to be
    good for business. \r\n\r\nThere's also the fact that I'm designing fonts primarily
    as a form of artistic expression, and making a font free vastly expands the target
    audience. Knowing my design has been downloaded thousands of times might be cooler
    than knowing it's been bought a handful of times.\r\n\r\nWhat's a nominal price
    for a single-cut font?  $10?"
  created: '2012-10-16 16:21:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even $1 is like... infinitely more than zero.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-16 17:01:18'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "True, yet even a $1 purchase is a hurdle few people will have the energy
    to overcome unless they're used to buying fonts on a regular basis, in which case
    you're probably a graphic designer or aficionado, and would just as likely pay
    $10. \r\n\r\n1$ might be infinitely much more money than 0$, but 0$ is an infinitely
    more attractive offer than 1$..."
  created: '2012-10-16 17:44:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Getting used to paying for fonts isn't so bad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-16 17:59:01'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "<strong>Aurichalcum</strong> is too technical. I'm now thinking of <strong>Outbound</strong>
    as the release name of this font. It sounds appropriately adventurous and nautical.
    It's also a good word to showcase the fraktur-style |O|.\r\n\r\nIs it possible
    to keep updating a given font on MyFonts so that people who bought the first version
    can download the newer releases whenever they become available?"
  created: '2012-10-17 16:33:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the name should reflect its android/mecha look and feel.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I wouldn't call that \"o\" fraktur-style.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 16:43:48'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I'm not getting an android/mecha vibe at all. I think it evokes retro-tech
    from the era of steam boats, the Eiffel tower, and sea travel. The fearless spirit
    of discovery and adventure of newly invented science.\r\n\r\nYeah I'm misusing
    the word Fraktur. I suppose I'm referring to the internal vertical structure that
    |O| has in Old English Blackletter. \r\n\r\nSo, what about version control on
    MyFonts? No problem, I assume?"
  created: '2012-10-18 00:44:06'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: I like where this is going. How about the name Oarlock?
  created: '2012-10-18 21:00:39'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "I like how clockpunk this is while still remaining practical and readable.\r\n\r\nThe
    original |w| was too obscure, but the new one is too prosaic (and kind of \"v-v\").
    I'd try more ideas and aim for a middle ground.\r\nI like the construction of
    the |W| but I would enjoy seeing the central spanning serif beam made into an
    arc sweeping around what would be the crossing.\r\nThere seems room in |M| and
    |Z| for more fanciful touches too, if you can think of some.\r\n|X| appears to
    be light. I suspect it's not merely from comparison with the doubled strokes in
    other letters, but that the downstroke is actually lighter than it should be."
  created: '2012-10-26 09:27:36'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Hey all,\r\n\r\nsorry for the radio silence. I've completed a larger character
    set now, increased the descender depth for more appropriate old-style proportions,
    recut a number of characters that didn't fit the texture of the font well (such
    as many of the diagonal characters), and had it all kerned by Igino Marini's iKern.
    I'm now trying to get it published on MyFonts as soon as possible, but it's taking
    a while.\r\n\r\n@ Cerulean: You're right about the |X|, it was too light.  Good
    catch!\r\n\r\nI'm running into a weird problem, though. iKern produces OTF files
    as an output, which work perfectly. However, if I try to save them into FontForge
    format for further editing (such as making the X heavier) and then generate new
    OTF fonts for system use, I lose all functionality of my ligatures. WTF? What's
    going wrong? Do I have to work in OTF exclusively? \r\n\r\nEDIT: OK, it works
    if I make the changes to Igino's OTF files and directly export it into OTF again. "
  created: '2012-10-26 13:58:02'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: '@ Luma: Oarlock is a nice word, but its meaning seems rather pedestrian.  ;o)'
  created: '2012-10-26 14:17:03'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: 'I was thinking of some nautical, brass mechanical stuff that vaguely resembles
    the letters and starts with O. I see your forms here: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/m5ysVIQYMcPpVsZypFTYfKQ_6108.jpg]'
  created: '2012-10-26 23:32:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Call it Astrolabe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-26 23:55:57'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Luma: Those are some nice oarlocks.  ;o)\r\n\r\n@ Hrant: That was one of
    the first names I considered, as it happens. The meaning is really cool, but I
    don't like the name aesthetically. Also, there's a slew of square sans science
    fiction fonts called Astro-something; I wouldn't want to end up in that drawer.\r\n\r\nTaking
    some names for a ride...  frankly, all in all, I still like Outbound best. It
    has a positive, evocative, universal meaning and just looks nice. I also like
    Quadrant really well, but I'm afraid it might be too close to the existing font
    names Quadraat, Quadranta, and Alpha Quadrant.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4992.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_4167.png]"
  created: '2012-10-27 16:27:24'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'Some neat words in the conceptual territory of Astrolabe: Orrery, Torquetum,
    Antikythera.'
  created: '2012-10-28 08:53:07'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Cerulean: Those sound intriguing, but unfortunately not very aesthetic
    (Orrery in particular sounds like a speech impediment!)...\r\n\r\nHowever, I believe
    I have the solution now:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/octant_6548.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    name has it all: It's reasonably pretty, starts with an |O|, contains a ligature
    as well as the seminal |a|, and signifies a historic object both nautical and
    technical in nature, often crafted from brass. What's not to like?  :o)"
  created: '2012-10-29 00:50:32'
- author:
    name: kyrmse
    picture: 112387
  body: "This is a wonderful concept. I wonder when there will be a usable font for
    download. Please let me know :-)\r\nkyrmse@gmail.com"
  created: '2012-11-09 13:40:01'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Hi Kyrmse,\r\n\r\ngood to know I'll have at least one buyer.  ;o)\r\n\r\nThe
    font will be available for download as soon as MyFonts get back to me on my application
    for foundry status.  It's been more than two weeks since I sent them my application
    materials, but I hear it can take up to a month...  (Is that normal? I know at
    least one message from them already got lost in electronic limbo on the way to
    me...)"
  created: '2012-11-10 00:45:55'
- author:
    name: kyrmse
    picture: 112387
  body: "Wunderbar! Dieser font hat etwas renaissance\xE4hnliches an sich, kann aber
    durchaus auch in \"modernerer\" umgebung gebraucht werden. Ich k\xF6nnte mir vorstellen,
    da\xDF beispielsweise Chaucers oder Malorys texte sehr sch\xF6n in... wie hei\xDFt
    das noch mal?... \"Octant\" gesetzt werden k\xF6nnten. Eine ganze seite mit verzierten
    initialien w\xFCrde eine attraktive textur aufweisen.\r\n[With due apologies to
    everybody else - got carried away:]\r\nWonderful! This font has something renaissance-like,
    but may be easily used in a more \"modern\" environment. I am able to imagine
    texts by e.g. Chaucer or Malory very beautifully set in... what was the name again?...
    \"Octant\". A whole page with decorated initials would exhibit an attractive texture.\r\nChristian:
    do let me know when!     ;-)"
  created: '2012-11-12 17:20:10'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Just some quick observations:\r\n/t/s crossbar could grow a little more from
    its left.\r\nThe tail of /Q/ is too heavy, I think.\r\n/G/ looks narrow to my
    eyes.\r\nSome of /W/ serifs are too short.\r\n\r\nYou\u2019ve got some nice ideas
    there, reminds me of some of my scribblings :-)\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 20:27:27'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Lex: I had already fixed the |Q| on my own, but thanks for pointing out
    the |W|. I strengthened the serifs and added the missing one on the leftmost arm
    back on. I suppose the |G| could use a little more width, but wouldn't want to
    make any more edits that mess up the iKerning at this point. I like the |t| as
    it is; it's among my favorite glyphs in this font.\r\n\r\nMyFonts still haven't
    replied to my foundry application...  :("
  created: '2012-11-16 05:03:06'
- author:
    name: Arthus
    picture: 116411
  body: "This looks absolutely great, I love the fine detail and shape contrasts.
    The capital Q must be my favorite (now it's tweaked I'm safe to say that!) I'm
    not too sure on the lower case 'a' though, the bowl could use a bit more space
    I think, it's extremely tight compared to all other glyphs, especially since you
    have such an open 'e'. But of course it's added quirkiness.\r\n\r\nAlso, the s
    is slightly dull compared to most glyphs, perhaps an idea for some alternates?
    I think it's good to have a neutral one, but the curves are begging for some of
    your crazy interventions ;)\r\n\r\nGreat job!"
  created: '2012-11-18 03:41:41'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, the contract with MyFonts is in place, so Octant should start selling
    any day now.\r\n\r\nI still have an <strong>acute problem</strong> with it, though:
    Wherever it is used on the MyFonts webpage \u2014 both in the font sample windows
    and on my foundry page \u2014 neither the kerning nor the ligatures work. \r\n\r\nFrom
    the website:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/web_4128.png]\r\n\r\nOn my
    local machine, in PowerPoint:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/powerpoint_5218.png]\r\n\r\nAny
    idea why that would happen? "
  created: '2013-01-22 11:21:09'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: '(I''ve started a separate thread for this technical problem: http://typophile.com/node/99929)'
  created: '2013-01-22 13:36:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Congrats. It's really beautiful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-24 14:35:58'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "The technical problems have been resolved, as far as I can tell. Thus, Octant
    should be available for purchase within a day or two. Yay!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poster0_4577.png]"
  created: '2013-01-24 15:07:03'
- author:
    name: mch
    picture: 126272
  body: Very nice indeed!
  created: '2013-01-25 18:42:25'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: Congrats! Good luck!
  created: '2013-01-29 14:18:02'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Dear Typophiles,\r\n\r\nOctant is now for sale on MyFonts.  Yay!  :)  \r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/catharsis-fonts/octant/\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your support, everyone!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 22:41:23'
date: '2012-10-05 12:01:37'
title: 'Working title: Aurichalcum'

---
