---
author:
  name: Saara
body: "Hey typophiles,\r\nI'm looking for typefaces made by non-white/non-european/non-western
  designers/typographers? Feeling a bit ignorant with this question, maybe there's
  an ocean of those that are super easy to find if I would just know where to look.
  But anyway I'm looking here for help!\r\n\r\nLooking forward to replies!\r\nS"
comments:
- author:
    name: thegoldenratio-spammer
    picture: 126074
  body: Maybe someone should make a community for non-white/non-european/non-western
    designers/typographers, or would that be kind of racist? lol
  created: '2012-12-09 08:04:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Possible starting points:\r\nwww.myfonts.com/search/india/people/\r\nwww.myfonts.com/search/china/people/\r\nwww.myfonts.com/search/japan/people/\r\netc."
  created: '2012-10-10 11:13:35'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Are all currently famous fonts created by notan typographers, then? I can't
    see the difference.
  created: '2012-10-10 13:15:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sara, there are degrees of non-ness... What about an Indian guy living in
    the UK for example? For how long is OK? Then there are westerners who have moved
    out - do they count? And what about people from/in countries on the border, like
    Lebanon?\r\n\r\nTheunis, what do you mean by \"notan typographers\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 14:47:16'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Bad play on \"no-tan\" :D\r\n\r\nThe OP seems to assume common typefaces
    are in fact by \"western\" designers -- why?  For all I know, Matthew Carter could
    be Australian, and you can't get much further east without ending up at the west
    again. Also, I wouldn't care if he <em>is</em>. (Just picked a random name, by
    the way.)\r\n\r\nPossibly related to: the discussion a while ago on \"why are
    Latin fonts predominant in the type industry\" (or something alike). I cannot
    recall if that thread reached a conclusion or a consensus of some kind. Personally,
    I think a similar point could be made on a Chinese forum discussing their predominantly
    Chinese fonts, and by Chinese as well :-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Saara
    body: "Theunis, \r\nIf the OP means me, I do assume that common typefaces are
      in the large majority made by \"western\" designers, please prove me wrong!"
    created: '2012-10-10 16:16:01'
  created: '2012-10-10 15:37:10'
- author:
    name: Saara
  body: "hrant, you're completely right, and I'm also interested in all the in-betweens,
    the gray zones if you wish. \r\n\r\nThe history of famous typographers (as well
    as graphic design in general) as presented to me during my education and beyond
    has been exclusively a Eurocentrist/American one. And I wish to learn what a question
    on this board can bring up in terms of other histories/perspectives/advice/links.
    If you have knowledge to share I'm really grateful!\r\n\r\nThanks riccardO"
  created: '2012-10-10 15:38:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Theunis, I don't condone racism (although my definition is stricter than
    that of most... westerners :-) and as I hinted this is an extremely thorny sort
    of thing with a superb spectrum of grays, but to me it remains that we are in
    large part a result of our respective cultures (with each of us always having
    more than one) and as a result so is our output. And that's not a bug, that's
    a feature.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 16:32:37'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Hrant, of course I'm with you. That's why it reminded me of the 'why do latin
    fonts rule' thread: it may only be from our point of view they seem to.\r\n\r\nIt's
    possible the answer for the OP (sorry, Saara: that's Forum Speak for \"Original
    Poster\") is the same as was mentioned in that thread: Money, Technology, Opportunity.
    But if that <em>is</em> the reason, it kind of <em>acknowledges</em> the statement
    \"common typefaces are in the large majority made by \"western\" designers\" to
    hold valid, and (a) I'm not convinced of that (but I'm not interested in the cultural
    background of the designers of my fonts so I never looked into that), and (b)
    I still wouldn't care if the designer of one of my favourite fonts turned out
    not to be the WASP I assumed him. Or, gasp, even turned out to be a <em>woman</em>
    (to take yet another turn)."
  created: '2012-10-10 16:45:22'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I could be completely off base here, but I get the impression that Europe
    has a longer and deeper history of typefaces in general due to having a longer
    and deeper history of using movable type.  I gather movable type took off in Europe
    more readily than in other cultures because Europeans had simpler writing systems.
    \ For instance, ISTR reading that movable type was invented in China some time
    before Gutenberg but just didn't see any significant adoption because it simply
    wasn't practical for a language with many thousands of common-use characters.\r\n\r\nIf
    that's the case, then European (and by extension Latin) text largely set the trends
    in printing and type design, and once the digital age came along (and computer
    character sets became standardized) the support of Latin text became embedded.
    \ The earliest generations of computers were Anglo-American and only supported
    ASCII (Latin).  As new computer character sets were developed they were implemented
    as extensions of ASCII for compatibility purposes, and so virtually all character
    set standards mandate full Latin support, regardless of what other languages are
    covered.  That logically extends to the computer fonts designed for them.  \r\n\r\nI've
    seen many references on myfonts and other sites to designers with Russian-sounding,
    Japanese-sounding, Middle-eastern-sounding, and other non-Anglocentric names.
    \ Even their fonts tend to include Latin, and that's what we see in the previews
    (usually).  I suppose if they didn't, the fonts wouldn't be disseminated much
    outside their own countries/cultures.\r\n\r\nLiving for five years in Japan, I
    can't say I ever noticed a particularly wide variety of fonts being used, for
    either English/Roman text or for pure Japanese.  (Virtually every sample of English
    I ever saw written used either MS Mincho/MS Gothic or Helvetica; the vast majority
    of Japanese text outside calligraphy or custom logos always seemed to be either
    Heisei-Gothic/Heisei-Mincho, MS Gothic/MS Mincho or something resembling the M+
    fonts.)"
  created: '2012-10-10 16:56:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Saara,\r\n\r\nAre you looking for designers of non-Latin scripts or simply
    non-caucasian designers of any script including Latin?  I don't know of any listing
    by ethnicity but if you look for typefaces in Indic scripts, the names may tell
    you if they are of Indian origin."
  created: '2012-10-10 17:01:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Even their fonts tend to include Latin</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOne
    reason is that westerners tend to actually pay for fonts more often...\r\n\r\nAnother
    reason though is that type design <em>education</em> is very Western, which means
    you end up learning how to make Latin fonts automatically, in fact typically before
    you make a non-Latin font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 17:04:04'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "The Roman alphabet is itself an artifact of European culture [as Hrant observed
    while I was writing this], so it's perhaps inevitable that designing variations
    on the Roman alphabet is a profession mainly practiced by people of European origin
    or descent. I imagine us white folks are similarly under-represented in the ranks
    of those who design Kanji fonts. \r\n\r\nNon-Europeans creating designs for the
    Roman alphabet is one measure of progress toward a more diverse society. Another
    measure--more important, in my opinion--will be more white folks learning to read
    non-Roman alphabets, and to respect the ideas they communicate. "
  created: '2012-10-10 17:11:12'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Another reason could be that the entire technology <em>an sich</em> is deeply
    culturally biased towards the Western world. The ASCII table, for example, has
    been the bane of everything European for literally decades on end (the \"AS\"
    stands for \"<em> American</em> Standard). After much deliberating, and various
    more or less succesfull hacks (e.g. the dreaded \"code pages\"), the 'world wide'
    embrace of Unicode put an end to accent related troubles. Or to a lot. Not all
    of them.\r\nHowever, in that the Western culture also ruled supreme! Arabic characters,
    for example, have been coaxed into 'different' code points for their four different
    forms. If you think writing a case insensitive search routine is a bother for
    Latin text, you can quadruple the efforts needed for Arabic.\r\n\r\nAnother example
    of technology following culture could be the keyboard. Much as \"we\" are used
    to a Shift key to toggle between capitals and lowercase -- to the point where
    we can mentally extend the concept to toggling between the number \"3\" and the
    character \"#\" <em>even though these are unrelated</em> --, if the keyboard concept
    was of Arabic origin, one could expect it to have <em>four</em> 'shift' keys to
    alternate between initial (somewhat equivalent to \"our\" capitals), medial, final,
    and isolated form. (Two shift keys with a binary function may also work.)\r\nBut
    that's still imaginable for \"us\" Anglo-Europeans. What if the concept of machine
    input was inherited from Chinese sources? I'm not talking about the clunky 30,000
    key typewriter (which is just Western tech projected onto Chinese target audience).
    In China, an age old habit in discussing ideograms is to 'write' them in the palm
    of your hand. Extrapolating that to a mechanical method may have led to the <em>touchpad</em>
    as the primary input source for a computer!\r\n\r\nComing to a point here: if
    the reason Western font designers are dominant, and there may be \"not that many\"
    non-Western font designers, it is because the entire technology, from storage
    to display, is based  on Western concepts of data storage, text input, rendering,
    and font design itself.\r\n\r\nThis whole story only covers one of my three points,
    Technology. I'm sure a similar argument (long winded, apologies) can be made for
    the other two: Money and Opportunity."
  created: '2012-10-10 18:32:45'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>Another measure--more important, in my opinion--will be more
    white folks learning to read non-Roman alphabets, and to respect the ideas they
    communicate.</blockquote>\r\nAbsolutely. I learned to read Greek and Cyrillic
    scripts in practice (although I usually only have a vague idea what the text actually
    says), and appreciating the letter forms taught me a lot about font design.\r\nI'm
    teetering on the edge of a similar breakthrough for Arabic (where other people
    only see random scribblings, I can discern the various letter forms) and I'm hoping
    to get some extended exposure to it so I can make the jump to actually be able
    to read it."
  created: '2012-10-10 18:41:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good analysis, and interesting ideas!\r\n\r\nBTW Arabic would need only two
    shift keys (giving the necessary four possible combinations)* but only if you
    could place any one of the four forms anywhere, which you can't; so Arabs are
    lucky that -assuming the necessary software environment- an algorithm can choose
    for them... and in fact they don't need <em>any</em> shift key! Although personally
    I happen to be a fan of reforming Arabic to support capitalization. In case that
    sounds jingoistic: you should see what I want to do to Latin.  :-)\r\n\r\n* This
    being something I actually implemented in the late 80s for Broadcast Titler on
    the Amiga**; and you had to hit the left arrow key after each keystroke. :-)  Those
    fonts of mine were actually also used to set Arabic and Farsi ads in some ethnic
    \"yellow pages\" directories. Memories...\r\n\r\n** http://www.themicrofoundry.com/s_multimedia.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 18:47:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026maybe there's an <a href=\"http://www.identifont.com/similar?3Q7\">ocean</a>\u2026</em>"
  created: '2012-10-10 18:50:46'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Hrant, two shift keys are sufficient for four forms. :)\r\n(1) None, for
    medial forms, because those occur most frequently; (2) ShiftA for Capitals, (3)
    ShiftB for Finals, and (4) both, for isolated (as I think that would be the rarest
    form).\r\n\r\nTyping, by the way, on my iPad. Actually the \"keyboard\" implementation
    on this device is dreadful. I make far more errors than usual, and they are way
    harder to correct (to a point where I hesitate to do a quick spell-and-grammar
    check). Then again, it's Western technology projected onto a device that <em>does
    not naturally</em> lend itself to it. Were I of Chinese descent and finally be
    able to write down any ideogram I wanted, I would have been delighted."
  created: '2012-10-10 18:51:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Learning other languages is awesome. But in our field mostly you need to
    appreciate the shapes, the script. For example I don't understand Russian or Greek
    but I'm familiar enough with their scripts to make usable fonts; this is the same
    situation with many people who design fonts for Arabic for example - they can
    barely read any of it (but make better Arabic fonts than me, even though I know
    Arabic). You don't even need to know about the sounds. To get an appreciation
    of this paradox, think about the severe mismatch in English spelling and pronunciation!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 18:53:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I'm curious about your link - but it doesn't work.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>ShiftA
    for Capitals</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMinor: better termed \"initials\".\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the
    \"keyboard\" implementation on [the iPad] is dreadful</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI hear
    you brother. Even my lowly Kindle with a <em>physical keyboard</em> isn't as horrible.\r\n\r\nBut
    that's not a technology issue; that an issue with a company caring mostly about
    sounds and pictures and not really caring about text (and other companies sheepishly
    following their lead).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 19:03:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It still seems to be a problem coming out of the sheer number of characters
    issue. Twentysix is just a much easier number to work with than 3,000. Even if
    you add the diacritics from Central Europe, it is much easier a technical issue
    than an Asian script.
  created: '2012-10-10 19:25:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Try again Hrant, the server may be busy.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nRace, technology
    and culture isn\u2019t the whole story\u2014size and circumstance have something
    to do with it.\r\nNot every European country is as well populated with type designers
    as the relatively small Netherlands.\r\nAnd in Canada, with its centuries of European
    settlers, Carl Dair\u2019s \uFB01rst indigenous type design was not made until
    1967. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-10 19:28:07'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>Carl Dair\u2019s \uFB01rst indigenous type design ...</blockquote>\r\nIndigenous
    as in \"made in Canada\", or the very first Canadian Syllabic font?\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    this question is too much like asking \"why are most famous didgeridoo players
    of Australian descent\", applied to fonts."
  created: '2012-10-10 19:36:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, I was going to mention the real \uFB01rst Canadian typeface, a rough
    piece of work made in the 19th century for a First Nations language by a missionary,
    but I couldn\u2019t remember his name, and a quick Google didn\u2019t come up
    with it."
  created: '2012-10-10 20:21:07'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: '@Nick : James Evans?'
  created: '2012-10-10 21:29:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/index.htmll\">James Evans and the
    Rossville Mission Press.</a>\r\n\r\nPS. Be sure to check out Ross Mills' <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/James_Evans/Rossville/Rossville.html\">reconstruction
    of some of Evans type making processes</a>."
  created: '2012-10-10 22:00:11'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "To answer the original question:\r\nAkira Kobayashi is the first name that
    came to mind. (Or rather I should say- he came to mind, and then I had to search
    for his name.) I admire his work, and remember he had some really interesting
    things to say about designing a Latin typeface from a non-native perspective."
  created: '2012-10-11 01:17:23'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Saara:\r\n\r\nYou should get a copy of a book called Language Culture Type
    which was published by ATypI a few years ago and celebrates the contributions
    of type designers around the world.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Language-Culture-Type-International-Unicode/dp/1932026010"
  created: '2012-10-11 01:23:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Akira Kobayashi ... had some really interesting things to say
    about designing a Latin typeface from a non-native perspective.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm
    a big fan of Akira as well, so I'd love to learn more details about this.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-11 04:34:40'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I dabbled a little in Japanese calligraphy, although I always wished I could
    study it in more detail.  (I was just looking into joining a local class when
    the earthquake and subsequent evacuations put paid to that, unfortunately.)  \r\n\r\nI
    have grown quite interested in looking at the internal consistency of Japanese
    fonts, with respect to how they combine the Latin and Japanese glyph sets.  It's
    rare to find the Japanese font which uses Latin characters that aren't painfully
    generic.  <a href=\"http://mplus-fonts.sourceforge.jp/mplus-outline-fonts/design/index-en.html\">M+</a>,
    which is IMO one of the more attractive Japanese text fonts, uses a Latin set
    that looks extremely similar to Frutiger and Myriad.  (And that's one of the better
    examples - at least those are fairly nice Latin glyphs, if not very original.)
    \ Of course, it goes both ways - Monotype's pan-Unicode WorldType fonts from the
    1990s, for example, use extremely generic Japanese characters (although to be
    fair, their Latin is pretty unimaginative too).  One of the things I want to experiment
    with is in designing fonts with an internally consistent character style between
    Latin and Japanese (which still \"fits\" both writing systems)."
  created: '2012-10-11 16:51:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's nice to be ambitious, but be warned: enforcing too much formal consistency
    between scripts almost always results in a loss of authenticity as well as functionality.
    It's not impossible for scripts to share attributes (I [try to] do that all the
    time) but the limits are typically pretty severe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-11 16:55:58'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>enforcing too much formal consistency between scripts almost always results
    in a loss of authenticity as well as functionality</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a hard
    lesson, but an important one."
  created: '2012-10-12 01:42:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But surely a good design is formally consistent across scripts, without privileging
    any one to the detriment of the other(s).\r\n\r\nHow is this a different problem
    than consistency between letters in the same script?\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s easy (with
    competent production skills) to produce a consistent alphabet\u2014if you stick
    to convention.\r\n(I believe this is Alex\u2019s point.)\r\nThe hard part is to
    \uFB01nd a way to make the whole thing interesting and new, without the novelty
    of individual glyphs protruding."
  created: '2012-10-12 05:57:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe we mean different things by \"formally consistent\".\r\n\r\nLet me
    try this example, which is something I run into regularly: if you're making an
    Armenian companion to a typical Latin serif font formal consistency requires it
    to be upright, and to have serifs in the same places; but this results in an ungainly,
    low-readability mess.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>How is this a different problem than
    consistency between letters in the same script?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOn some level
    at least maybe it's not!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 06:46:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"formal consistency requires it to be upright, and to have serifs in the
    same places\"\r\n\r\nRequires? I don't see it. Formal consistency must be incredibly
    rigid to you?  Formal consistency is what you make of it.  It can be lock-step
    rigid, as you seem to imply, or simply a kin to.  There is a difference between
    identical twins and 2nd cousins but both are family."
  created: '2012-10-12 19:17:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I myself do apply \"formal consistency\", just very gently. But the way Nick
    expressed it, it sounds like the sort of thing I hear from people who for example
    put too many serifs on Armenian (\"too many\" because our \"x-height\" has a much
    higher proportion of verticals).\r\n\r\nIt's notable BTW that some designers are
    much more restrictive than even I am: they feel that matching the color is the
    <em>only</em> thing that should be done. I myself think there's -usually- more
    room to play than that; in fact even color can actually be sacrificed if that
    helps balance the apparent sizes (which is more important).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 19:38:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It is mostly a visual thing instead of a measurement thing.  The x height
    of Greek to Latin, for me, is not the same.  People read with their eyes, not
    with a micrometer :-)
  created: '2012-10-12 19:54:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>The x height of Greek to Latin, for me, is not the same.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nExactly!
    But do note that most fonts do have them the same. Why? Because humans like to
    line things up, and when they're observing letterforms consciously = display typography,
    it's admittedly nice; but not for immersive reading; and sometimes not for cultural
    integrity either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 20:02:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But the way Nick expressed it, it sounds like the sort of thing I hear
    from people who for example put too many serifs on Armenian.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd that\u2019s
    what also generally happens to me on the \uFB01rst pass of a serifed Greek lower
    case derived from a Latin.\r\n\r\nBut then the goal is to work within that parameter
    of having fewer serifs than the Latin, and nonetheless achieve consistency of
    overall text colour, and consistency of scale of detail.\r\n\r\nBecause, apart
    from overall \u201Cstyle\u201D (e.g. shape of curves and ductus), those are the
    cross-script consistencies to aim for, or else the two scripts will look like
    different weights and different sizes."
  created: '2012-10-12 20:31:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" those are the cross-script consistencies to aim for, or else the two scripts
    will look like different weights and different sizes.\"\r\n\r\nYes, but how do
    you do this?  I assume you have no formula or set of specifications to follow?
    \ I assume you just work on it until you feel you have achieved a sufficient family
    resemblance to make the differing scripts work together without being jolted out
    of conscious reading.\r\nI think when we write down an exact recipe for consistency,
    that we are at that moment doomed to failure.  Because different scripts came
    to be in different ways, there is no Rubrics' Cube solution.  Type designer Humans
    just have to do the work so that other Humans can simply read it without having
    to consult a cypher."
  created: '2012-10-12 20:58:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>consistency of overall text colour, and consistency of scale
    of detail.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis is what I don't believe in, because the functionality
    of a [text] face doesn't come from formal attributes, especially when you factor
    in differences in how cultures see forms; such formal consistency ignores tradition
    (which harms functionality). For example, a \"literal\" Cyrillic Trajan cannot
    mean the same thing for Russians as Trajan does for Westerners.\r\n\r\nTo me -in
    a text face- the correct way to approach it is \"multi-laterally\": start form
    the scripts individually and see where they can meet; and very often they simply
    can't get close enough to satisfy the important requirements (which for one thing
    doesn't include the conscious appreciation of alignment) so you snap away (for
    example by not forcing the \"x-height\"s to align).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 21:19:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It should be clear that formal consistency can mean different things; indeed,
    allows different approaches to the same design situation. We touched on this in
    another thread recently, when we discussed what makes it possible to create more
    than one viable companion for a type in one script in another script, each picking
    up different formal aspects of the common 'target'.
  created: '2012-10-12 21:47:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, that was/is an interesting angle and a good point*. However (and I'm
    not sure I ended up opining this on that thread) the closer your intentions are
    to \"pure reading\" the less room you have to pick and choose which formal parameters
    to play with.\r\n\r\n* In fact I can in retrospect say that that's how my Nour&Patria
    is built.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 21:53:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the functionality of a [text] face doesn't come from formal attributes\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nBy
    \u201Cconsistency of overall text colour\u201D, I mean between the two scripts,
    so that they both appear to be the same weight of font. This is a reasonable expectation
    for typographers to have, tasked as they often are with balancing the import of
    blocks of different-script text, side by side on the same page. You don\u2019t
    want your Greek to look like Regular and your Latin to look like Semibold.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    with \u201Cscale of detail\u201D, you don\u2019t want your Roman to look like
    a body face and your Greek to look like an agate.\r\n\r\nWeight and optical size
    are formal attributes of a typeface, and they have to be consistent between scripts,
    or else the settings of at least one of the scripts will require so much tweaking
    by the typographer that the font becomes dysfunctional for multi-script layouts."
  created: '2012-10-12 22:46:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Consistent color is generally a good thing in my view, but thinking \"let's
    start with serifs where they would be in Latin and maybe take some out so the
    two scripts look closer\" isn't.\r\n\r\nAs for trying to match apparent size (which
    I've never heard of as \"scale of detail\") as I said I agree that it's very important
    (mostly because you don't want people feeling inferior). That said it's possible
    to counter-balance that with color (i.e. make one script smaller but darker than
    the other) especially if you simply can't make the apparent sizes close enough
    - think of combining Latin and Arabic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-12 23:33:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Want to come back to the ideas of this thread later, once I've properly formulated
    the problem that's been troubling some of us all year in Reading, basically that
    the same formal characteristics of a design may be either very very conventional
    or completely alien in a different script. What some call the 'atmospheric values'
    of a typeface depends entirely on socio/cultural associations; where formal characteristics
    may connote a very different era or mood in a different script. For example the
    broad nib convention in Latin doesn't work well in Thai, where expansion serves
    the letterforms more historically accurately, as well as more aesthetically. Sorry,
    I appear to be speaking in fragments.
  created: '2012-10-12 23:52:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Somewhat fragmented, but entirely valid.  :-)\r\n\r\nAnd a favorite example
    I like to use happens to be from Thai culture:\r\nhttp://www.davestravelcorner.com/photos/thailand/Statue-Bangkok.jpg\r\n(I
    couldn't find the picture I once took of those statues unfortunately.)\r\nThey
    look kinky-evil to Westerners, but not to Thais.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>depends entirely
    on socio/cultural associations</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGreatly, yes, but not entirely;
    there are still some things that unite us as humans, for example the power of
    the color red, the instability of the inverted triangle, and so many more things.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-13 01:42:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ha, <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ohbendy/3935238365/\">here</a>'s
    another one of the kinnari from Bangkok's Grand Palace.\r\n\r\nAnyway, what I'm
    trying to get at is the way that one needs to understand the traditions of a culture
    in order to avoid unwittingly imposing models or formal characteristics that have
    different associations. What this boils down to (at least for me) is that in multi-script
    typefaces, one may need to look beyond a single stroke model as the unifying element,
    and instead tie things together with atmospheric values, by which I mean the associations
    and preferences of the target readership, something which is very difficult for
    a complete outsider to grasp. One thing that I consciously kept in mind when creating
    Lumen Thai was to draw 'Thai' curves, which meant sometimes going against the
    shapes that came naturally out of my hand. Also it meant discarding the Latin
    stroke model and matching things in other ways: in terms of colour (though I've
    since realised Thai does need to be lighter because of the amount of superscript
    and subscript activity and lack of wordspaces), and by aiming for a humanist feel,
    though in the Thai the swelling stroke of a flexible nib is as conventional as
    the broad-nib in Latin, so the implementation of that humanist feel is executed
    differently. "
  created: '2012-10-13 15:17:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kinnari, eh? Good to know the term. But you really need to show the tail,
    and I do mean tail.  :-)\r\nhttp://www.luxury-thailand-travel.com/images/Kinnari-5.JPG\r\n\r\n<blockquote>in
    multi-script typefaces, one may need to look beyond a single stroke model</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAs
    you know I believe that's true even within just Latin. Without the \"may\".  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-13 15:47:28'
- author:
    name: Saara
  body: "Wow.\r\nI'm happy to have kicked off such a lively and interesting discussion!\r\nThanks
    to everyone, so many great points and advice!"
  created: '2012-10-18 08:45:13'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "I am reminded of some Vietnamese brush calligraphy I once saw. It looked
    like, well, like Chinese brush calligraphy done in the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nThere
    you go."
  created: '2012-10-22 21:05:52'
date: '2012-10-10 09:23:20'
node_type: forum
title: Typeface by non-white designer/typographer?

---
