---
author:
  name: inkexit
body: "I've seen a lot of diagrams like this, 'explaining' how the glyph was drawn.
  \ I've never contructed a font in this manner, and it seems like it would be a pain
  really.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ampersand_5779.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: 'No one ever built fonts this way (except gimmicky novelty fonts like this
    example). Even the most geometric-looking fonts, such as Avant Garde and Futura,
    deviate slightly from right angles and perfect circles. '
  created: '2012-10-16 20:21:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/karelia_4722.png]Here\u2019s one I did
    recently, digitizing a 1970s design by Malcolm Waddell.\r\nThere are some very
    minor optical adjustments, but the circles are indeed circles."
  created: '2012-10-16 20:22:00'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "**I misspelled its name in the original post. apparently those are uneditable
    now?  It's true name is \"Struktur\"**\r\n\r\nNovelty fonts are the future.   \r\n\r\nI
    have problems with this face {Struktur}, most notably the lowercase t, but I wouldn't
    call the face gimmicky. The ampersand is brilliant, if you ask me."
  created: '2012-10-16 20:36:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's one dorkmeister of a glyph.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-16 21:15:17'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "be careful if you want to take a dip in the waters anyone, the sharks are
    out...\r\n\r\nMaybe it needs to be seen with the rest of the face to see its beauty.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typographyserved.com/gallery/Struktur-Typeface-and-Posters/4777249\r\n\r\ndamn,
    I didn't really want this thread to be about that face, that was simply the most
    recent diagram I've seen."
  created: '2012-10-16 21:27:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's one dorkmeister of a font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-16 21:50:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I felt you were really talking about things like Durer's geometric decomposition
    of the capitals, but in a failed search for that sort of thing, I found this:\r\n\r\n[[http://opentype.info/blog/2008/07/08/traffic-sign-typefaces-poland/]]"
  created: '2012-10-16 22:01:00'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Trade your freedom and creativity for circles and straight lines! Yep...\r\n\r\nIt's
    a task which seems fairly easy, because of it's obvious constraints: one \u2018just
    has to be systematical\u2019. Choose your radii and draw a shape over different
    circle contours that resembles the character you're trying to draw somehow. But
    I think the easier a task, the more careful and precise you must be with details.\r\n\r\nSomething
    I find very difficult about it is, for example, the transitions from curved to
    straight lines. The sample Nick shows does this pretty well, but Struktur shows
    a few flaws."
  created: '2012-10-16 22:13:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 the transitions from curved to straight lines.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that was one place I cheated:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kareliap_5086.png]"
  created: '2012-10-16 22:30:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But perfect circles look like ovals. Of uneven thickness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-16 22:44:33'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: everything depends on context
  created: '2012-10-16 22:54:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In the past theorists did stuff like that. These days only amateurs do.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 16:38:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@LexLuengas:\r\n<cite>Trade your freedom and creativity for circles and straight
    lines!</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd that is different from trading your creativity for B\xE8zier
    curves how?\r\n\r\nAll right, so that isn't really fair; one needs, at least,
    <em>ellipses</em>, in addition to circles and straight lines, to have an adequately
    general set of primitives to easily construct a wide variety of typefaces."
  created: '2012-10-17 19:15:18'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "BP revided Romain de Roi, as BP Romain. \r\nHere\u2019s one of the original
    drawings.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gromain_6069.gif]"
  created: '2012-10-17 19:33:35'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Hmmmm, I think I may have gone about asking this question wrong.  \r\n\r\nThe
    point was not what that face looks like or if anybody uses perfect circles or
    straight lines, what I was trying to ask is if any of you start out with a bunch
    of circles, some of the circles divided into halves and quadrants; and then once
    they have drawn those how they like, then drawing the outlines on top of them.\r\n\r\nSo
    in the example above, the designer would start with all the shapes that are dotted
    lines, and then only after he had arranged those shapes how he wanted, would he
    draw the outlines by connecting the shapes.\r\n\r\nI know I've seen a bunch of
    diagrams like this in books about type design, the idea is hundreds of years old."
  created: '2012-10-17 20:04:56'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Beautiful example, Frode.  \r\n\r\nI mean it makes sense that if you used
    a lot of elements (circles, it seems most often), a good majority of which were
    all the same size (such as circles A and C are in Frode's pic), the resulting
    type would hold pretty true to it's self.  More homogeneous. \r\n\r\nIt makes
    sense technically. It just seems in practice it would be incredibly tedious.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 20:13:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The telling thing with the RdR though is that when Grandjean was give the
    job of actually making the fonts, he deviated markedly from those drawings (with
    the diagrams for the Italic totally abandoned).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It just seems
    in practice it would be incredibly tedious.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTedious to the
    point of not being worth it, especially for tricky glyphs. The lc \"g\" is missing
    from the RdR diagrams for a reason.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-17 20:22:48'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Romain Du Roi was a rigid rationalization true to the spirit of it's era.
    It was a time when people expected children to sit stiff for hours.
  created: '2012-10-18 16:01:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't get me wrong though - I feel of itself it was a valid piece of cultural
    progress. And we might have never had Baskerville (and then Bodoni, who was an
    admirer of Baskerville) without it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-18 16:20:53'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "<blockquote>And that is different from trading your creativity for B\xE8zier
    curves how?\r\n(...) one needs, at least, ellipses, in addition to circles and
    straight lines, to have an adequately general set of primitives to easily construct
    a wide variety of typefaces.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's true you could theoretically
    get along without B\xE8zier curves, using only arcs to approximate your curve
    (like one esentially does with B\xE9zier curves). Not even ellipses are necessary.
    \r\n\r\nMy point: from the practical point of view it makes no sense. Everything
    that restricts a designer technically in his creativity, everything that makes
    a class of shapes more likely than other, is mistaken as soon as it is presented
    as an \u2018aesthetic method\u2019. Just saying, more than often this idea is
    interpreted as a suggestion to a specific way of drawing. Like someone who looks
    at Romain de Roi's drawing and says: \u201CSo this is it! It was circles and ovals
    all this time! And I've been struggling with this weird B\xE8zier thingies for
    so long...\u201D."
  created: '2012-10-18 16:50:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>everything depends on context</em>\r\n\r\nRyan, you are such a freaking
    genius\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-19 08:59:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@LexLuengas:\r\n<cite>Everything that restricts a designer technically in
    his creativity, everything that makes a class of shapes more likely than other,
    is mistaken as soon as it is presented as an \u2018aesthetic method\u2019.<cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is absolutely true.\r\n\r\nMy unhappiness with the B\xE8zier curve is that some
    designers might want to specify traditional designs directly in terms of conic
    sections, at least in part.\r\n\r\nOne very early electronic typesetting system
    actually provided only one curve, an Archimedian spiral, in addition to the straight
    line. Ikarus, I believe."
  created: '2012-10-19 14:40:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The question was once famously asked, \u201CHow long is the coastline of
    Britain?\u201D\u2014the answer being that it depends on the amount of detail in
    the measurement method. (This was the primary consideration that led to the invention
    of fractals.)\r\n\r\nA similar principle applies to type outlines; any glyph shape
    can be rendered with straight lines and look sufficiently smooth if the curves
    are divided into enough straight segments, and rendered at an appropriate resolution
    (Licko\u2019s <em> Journal</em> springs to mind). The idea is that a complex line
    may be broken down into an appoximation by using shorter components of a less
    complex type. There are four or more levels of line complexity (according to the
    sophistication of one\u2019s maths): straight, circular, oval, quadratic\u2026\r\n\r\nCertainly,
    if one restricts a type design to the simpler lines, there is the danger of banality.\r\nIt
    helps a designer working in a simple mode to be familiar with complex curves,
    because this facilitates a subtlety of expression (by hand and eye) which mitigates
    the potential for crudeness and banality; two examples\u2014for instance, firstly,
    how much should be \u201Cshaved off\u201D the transition point between straight
    and curved? (See my post of Oct. 16) And secondly, what is the relationship between
    the radius size of the curves used in /m, /n and /o? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Karelia_mno_4641.png]\r\nThirdly,
    how big should the overshoot alignment zone be?\r\nAnd so on.\r\nThere is arguably
    less leeway in determining these subtle parameters of a type design in types based
    on simple modular forms, than there is in more complex types.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-19 18:55:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>This was the primary consideration that led to the invention
    of fractals.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAre you sure? I thought Benoit Mandelbrot invented
    it for kicks.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>any glyph shape can be rendered with straight
    lines and look sufficiently smooth if the curves are divided into enough straight
    segments</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, enough to fool the eye and/or overshoot the
    output resolution. Some early font formats did that, and in fact in the end RIPs*
    still do this AFAIK.\r\n\r\n* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raster_image_processor\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-19 19:34:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I know that a book about fractals used the question \"How long is the coastline
    of Britain\" to introduce the idea to the reader.\r\n\r\nSome fractals existed
    before Mandelbrot, such as the \"dragon curve\"; but Mandelbrot can be credited
    with the investigations that led to fractals being recognized under a unifying
    concept. This led to the conceptual framework that let mathematicians come up
    with such things as Hausdorff-Bescovitch dimension, for example.\r\n\r\nFractals
    are relevant to such things as painting trees and leaves; fonts tend not to need
    to be natural and wild. But mathematics did touch on some fonts - such as Piet
    Hein's superellipses giving rise to Melior."
  created: '2012-10-19 21:05:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>And we might have never had Baskerville (and then Bodoni, who
    was an admirer of Baskerville) without [the Romain du Roi].</em>\r\n\r\nThe Romain
    du Roi was commissioned in 1692, and not actually in use until 1702. By that date,
    John Ayres and George Shelley had already perfected the style of the English Roman
    on which Baskerville's types are based. The earliest expression of that style
    that I have so far found is John Seddon's of 1690, i.e. two years before the commissioning
    of the Romain du Roi. The line of Baskerville's development is so obviously in
    this English tradition, that I don't think any connection can be made between
    his types and the RdR.\r\n______\r\n\r\nAnd then there's this, which I came across
    in a recent Oak Knoll catalogue. This is the title page of a  prayer book written
    by Louis Senault and dedicated to Marie Anne Christine Victoire of Bavaria, who
    in 1680 married the French Dauphin.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/prieres_3888.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    book is undated, but indications are that it was produced in the 1680s. That lowercase
    in 'Sainte Ecriture' shows clear indications of being written with a split nib,
    resulting in the pattern of stroke modulation and vertical stress that characterises
    the letters of the Romain du Roi (and which are not determined by the construction
    method of the RdR; as Durer, Tory and numerous others had long since demonstrated,
    geometric approaches can just as easily produce diagonal stress).\r\n\r\nJames
    Mosley, in his essay on 'Les caract\xE8res de l'imprimerie royale', has already
    drawn his attention to the influence of the written romans of Nicolas Jarry and
    Louis Senault on the design of the RdR, some of the former's dating from as early
    as 1668. I'd go so far as to say that Grandjean's actual RdR types owe more to
    Jarry and Senault than they do to the committee's constructivist experiments.\r\n\r\nSo
    in terms of the development of neo-classical typography of the mid-18th Century,
    I posit two lines of development:\r\nFrench : Jarry/Senault -> Grandjean -> Fournier\r\nEngland
    : Seddon -> Shelley -> everyone else* -> Baskerville\r\n\r\n* By the 1730s, the
    'English roman' shows up in the standard repertoire of every writing master whose
    work I have examined. No exceptions.\r\n\r\nThe interesting question, then, is
    whether these French and English developments were independent pursuit of the
    same goal -- development of a style of type-like lettering better suited to neo-classical
    layout and ornament than the actual types of the 17th and early 18th Centuries
    --, or if Seddon was aware of what was happening in France. I'm inclined to think
    that the developments were independent, at least in terms of the evidence of the
    actual writing that resulted. There are distinctive differences in the solutions
    for some letters that persist in the writing and types of the 18th Century that
    are identifiably French and English."
  created: '2012-10-19 21:48:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for the correction/elaboration.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-19 21:55:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 such as Piet Hein's superellipses giving rise to Melior.</em>\r\n\r\nMore
    likely the other way around.\r\nThe squircle of Microgramma and Melior (both 1952)
    preceded Hein\u2019s superellipse (1959?)\r\nIMO the vogue for this shape derived
    from the CRT screen, where it was incidental.\r\nCommercial TV programming started
    in 1948 in the USA."
  children:
  - author:
      name: oldnick
      picture: 109434
    body: "Nick\u2014\r\n\r\nYour divining the CRT Effect is unexpectedly brilliant\u2026"
    created: '2012-10-20 07:24:52'
  created: '2012-10-19 22:31:16'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Seems this RdR face is pretty important, does it exist as a digital font today?
  created: '2012-10-20 15:04:12'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/interesting point_4683.png]\r\nThis is
    the most interesting point to me.  I myself (who does not have any of Nick's skill),
    probably would have placed that point further north along the curve, or possibly
    not have had a point there at all. you could stretch out the control arm of the
    point at the top of the curve, stretch it out to the right and probably get a
    smoother curve there. <em>Usually</em> less points = smoother curve.  Also, It's
    hard to tell from the shot, but it looks like Nick may have wanted to create a
    slight bulge between the point I'm talking about and the one just south of it.
    \ Is that the case?  I'd love to hear Nick talk about that point a little."
  created: '2012-10-20 15:14:43'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "@Nick Shin - \"Commercial TV programming started in 1948 in the USA.\"\r\n\r\nNot
    sure what that had to do with the topic, other  than the CRT, but ...\r\n\r\nWe
    got our first TV set, a 7 inch RCA, in 1947. By then there were three broadcasting
    networks, NBC, (WNBT), CBS, and ABC (WJZ-TV), each carrying one of the New York
    City baseball teams. Licensing for commercial TV started on July 1, 1941; the
    first US advertising was on WNBT as part of its test pattern (Bulova Watch Time)
    that same day. I first saw TV in 1940 at the 1939 NY Worlds fair, but not again
    until early 1947.\r\n\r\n - Herb "
  created: '2012-10-24 02:12:18'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Actually I heard it was the windows in the then new passenger jets..\r\n\r\n$0.02"
  created: '2012-10-24 06:13:33'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: Neither particularly funny nor correct. The first passenger jet was put into
    service in 1952.
  created: '2012-10-24 07:59:09'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Herb\u2014\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Television#History\r\n\r\n
    The first set which my birth family had\u2014circa 1948, just like me\u2014was
    a console model in which the CRT faced up, and was viewed in a mirror attached
    to the lid of the console. My mother\u2019s father\u2014a professional scenic
    artist\u2014managed to equip the box with a Fresnel lens, which projected the
    image onto a wall. The world\u2019s first projection TV? Who knows?"
  created: '2012-10-24 11:11:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry for the inaccuracies Herb, I got my TV dates from Wiki, not personal
    experience!
  created: '2012-10-24 16:24:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just saw this:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/undesign_studio/4973741928/in/set-72157624914230356/\r\nNever
    seen that done with/to such a workmanlike font.\r\n\r\nAnd more further down:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/undesign_studio/4973824578/in/set-72157624914230356/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-24 22:37:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That\u2019s post facto BS.\r\nA veneer of promotional tech-porn.\r\nMicrogramma
    is squircular in form, i.e. (super-) elliptical, not circle-based."
  created: '2012-10-24 22:48:48'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: A great book by a great type designer.
  created: '2012-10-25 00:13:56'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "@Nick and Nick - The 1948 date in that Wiki article refers specifically to
    network broadcasting. The same article gives the 1941 date for the first US commercials,
    albeit without the WNBT reference.\r\n\r\n - Herb\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-25 06:50:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Mind you, some of the earliest TV sets had round picture tubes; others, because
    the picture tube was quite long, had rectangular faces with only small round corners.\r\n\r\nThe
    shape we associate with a TV set came about a bit later on - although it was around
    from the early days of black and white, before deflection angles got even wider
    and tubes were aluminized."
  created: '2012-10-25 23:21:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://www.ww.typophile.com/node/86563
  created: '2012-10-26 00:59:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>The 1948 date in that Wiki article refers specifically to network broadcasting.
    The same article gives the 1941 date for the first US commercials, albeit without
    the WNBT reference.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue enough, but a trivial distinction: a mass
    medium does not become a mass medium until it is accessible to the masses. As
    opposed to the ubiquity of print, television required the purchase of a receiver,
    in order to mesmerize with its Dancing Scan Lines\u2014a different kind of cool,
    if you dig McLuhan. Today, it is pixels which do the dancing, constantly seducing
    us to part with our money to assert our precious individuality: Lord, what fools
    these mortals be.\r\n\r\nFrom 1981 to 1984, I worked as an Art Director for KXAS-TV,
    the NBC affiliate in Fort Worth-Dallas. The station came on the air as WBAP (We
    Broadcast a Program) in 1948 as the first TV station west of the Mississippi,
    the love-child of Amon Carter, publisher of <em>The Fort Worth Star-Telegram</em>.
    A few years before I arrived, the station was purchased by Lin Broadcasting as
    a cash cow: the station routinely generated a 55% profit margin. BTW, Lin was
    one of the pioneers in developing cellular phone technology.\r\n\r\nAt the station,
    I had the privilege of working with professionals who had been there since the
    beginning\u2014people like Dick Smith, who was Chief Engineer. I became a Grasshopper,
    and learned well at his feet. State-of-the-art technology at the time also occasioned
    my first foray into font-making\u2014creating bitmap fonts for the station\u2019
    Chyron IV character generator."
  created: '2012-10-26 10:43:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chyron IV \u2014 sounds like a planet in a distant Star Trek nebula."
  created: '2012-10-26 19:43:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, the Chyron... Sorry this story is a few decades less old :-) but when
    I made the first ever Armenian fonts for video titling in the late 80s (deployed
    via Broadcast Titler on the Amiga) the Horizon TV editor guy was very skeptical
    at first, saying we should instead send in my bitmaps to the Chyron company for
    burning on a special chip or something at a cost of a few thousand dollars...
    Yeah, right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-26 20:35:22'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "A bit later (c.1960), I was  at an aerospace company doing Fortran programming,
    creating graphs for aperture cards (IBM cards with space for inserting a 35mm
    film frame), using an IBM 740 CRT recorder to make the film inserts. The 740's
    built-in alphabet existed in only one size and had no lower case. I programmed
    a set of machine language subroutines, including very simple point-to-point vector-defined
    characters  that could be called from a Fortran program. The user could call the
    text subroutine, passing it information defining a text string,  its location,
    direction, and size (in mm, if I remember correctly, but it might have been in
    hundredths of inches).\r\n\r\n[[http://www-03.ibm.com/ibm/history/exhibits/701/701_1415bx40.html|The
    IBM 740 CRT Recorder]]\r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2012-10-26 22:24:37'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Heh. A neat hack, I gotta say.
  created: '2012-10-27 13:10:18'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AlfaBetaEuroStile_6536.png]\r\n\r\n<em>\"That\u2019s
    post facto BS.  A veneer of promotional tech-porn.  Microgramma is squircular
    in form, i.e. (super-) elliptical, not circle-based.\"</em>\r\n- Nick Shinn\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is though, that book, Alfa Beta, was actually written by the man who created
    Microgramma.  Could he be lying about it's construction, throwing out a red herring
    if you will, in an attempt to confuse and slow down his competition?  Sure, but
    it seems a bit much, considering no one was forcing him to write that book, and
    that writing that book probably took a good deal of his time, and that when it
    was published, Novarese might only have had a handful of real competitors.  I
    believe he really was explaining how he drew and constructed faces."
  created: '2012-10-28 18:57:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Replica from Lineto is grid based, fyi.
  created: '2012-10-28 19:16:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good point Ryan. Although I still think Nick is right.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-28 19:28:19'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Well I'm damn sure not inviting Squircle into my vocab, I mean come on, we
    already have to say "Tittles."  ;-)
  created: '2012-10-28 20:36:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: One can always just say "the dots on the lowercase i and j", or diacritics
    (or even "accents"), or vowel points, as the case may be, and avoid the chance
    of confusion.
  created: '2012-10-29 08:51:25'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>we should instead send in my bitmaps to the Chyron company for burning
    on a special chip or something at a cost of a few thousand dollars</em>\r\n\r\nWow:
    were those guys blowing some serious smoke up your ass. The Chyron system operated
    with three eight-inch floppies, one of which contained the bitmaps, no \u201Cspecial
    chip\u201D required.\r\n\r\nAt KXAS, I became the Resident Master of the Chyron
    because, one: I made it a point of being in attendance every time the Field Service
    technician showed up to fix a bug (which were numerous); and two, because I was
    able to determine at one point that what appeared to be a fatal system error was
    due to a failed data transfer switch on Drive A. In the latter instance, I told
    one of the engineers to meter the Drive A output. He was skeptical\u2014until
    he did it, and proved that my diagnosis was correct. Thereafter, the Engineering
    Department called me before they called Field Service, anytime an operator encountered
    a problem. This process resulted in fewer service calls, which was\u2014at least
    for me\u2014somewhat of a bummer, because the field techs were always sharing
    new processes and procedures with me, especially the motion chaining one could
    achieve with macros."
  created: '2012-10-29 09:44:09'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "Does anyone really build fonts like this anymore? Does 1999 count? [img:sites/default/files/old-images/VE1_3499.GIF]
    If you read John Downer's article you'll see he says it's a limited approach.
    http://www.emigre.com/EFfeature.php?di=130 \r\nJohn's Proportions course at Type@Cooper
    http://coopertype.org/curriculum/workshops/proportion-2 is fully enrolled for
    next weekend, but it's a repeating course which addresses the value of theory
    and practice used together. "
  created: '2012-10-29 13:40:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>The Chyron system operated with three eight-inch floppies</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot
    the one he had - I remember his had some weird font cartridge setup. Maybe the
    newer ones were more flexible (although programming the data on those disks couldn't
    have been trivial) but of course upgrading to that would have cost even more.
    I solved the problem with a $50 video encoder. Plus with the Amiga I also did
    3D animation, crisp raytraced scenes, etc. for them.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Downer
    .... says it's a limited approach.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA while back I wrote a
    review of Vendetta. I liked a lot of things about it (only some of the spacing
    is wonky, like the right sidebearing of the \"f\"; plus the pronounced faceting
    really begs for optical masters, since the font ends up feeling very different
    depending on size) but one thing that I wish had been revealed was how Downer
    went beyond the limited construction method; if you know that a method is limited
    but you flaunt it anyway, it's good to explain how you overcame the limitations.
    Unless some more insight has been published since and I missed it.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the
    value of theory and practice used together</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHear, hear. There
    is no cultural progress without theory.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-29 16:00:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Ryan: <em>I believe he really was explaining how he drew and constructed
    faces.</em>\r\n\r\nI suggest you put your belief to the test\u2014take the capital
    O from Microgramma, and see if its curves are in any part circular, by trying
    to superimpose arcs of circle on its outline.\r\n\r\nOr compare Microgramma with
    Alphaville, which <em>was</em> constructed with circles and straight lines:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OOs_5052.png]"
  created: '2012-10-29 18:00:18'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I took the lazy way out&hellip; I looked up [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chyron_Corporation|Chyron]]
    on the Wikipedia. The first titler, Chiron I, stored fonts in ROM. Later versions,
    it seems, had them on disk.
  created: '2012-10-29 20:21:23'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Whatchoo talkin' 'bout, Willis?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/willis_4896.png]"
  created: '2012-10-29 23:10:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@frode frank : What was the source of your Romain de Roi image?'
  created: '2012-10-29 23:32:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Come on Ryan, thick lines at low res won\u2019t wash.\r\nTry it with BCP
    paths and you\u2019ll see."
  created: '2012-10-30 02:58:15'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Here's the thing... (imho)\r\n\r\nif you are drawing a typeface by hand a
    hundred or more years ago and you have some interest in being consistent and making
    all the letters look like they belong to the same font, well, you're gonna use
    a compass and a set of dividers and draw some plots to work how it all fits together.\r\n\r\n(then,
    maybe after the fact, you're gonna make some nice drawings to show how clever
    you were)\r\n\r\nThese days, we do the essentially same thing, but we call it
    cut and paste."
  created: '2012-10-30 03:24:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Russell, the pantograph boys did work that way, but not the oldschool punchcutters.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-30 03:26:36'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ":o) \r\n\r\nI am sure you are right.\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-30 03:42:09'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I made it with thick lines so they would be easier to see.  Perhaps I will
    make a hi res version an upload it.  Really, though, it dosen't prove anything
    either way.  Just because Eurostile <em>can</em> be made with circles doesn't
    mean it was.  The only person who could really answer that question is Aldo, who
    has been gone for 17 years now.
  created: '2012-10-30 15:11:13'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "OK, here is a hi res version of a shape similar to Microgramma's O, saved
    as a pdf for Nick's pleasure.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/super_ellipse_6377.png]\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fileden.com/files/2012/10/30/3362016/superellipse.pdf"
  created: '2012-10-30 15:35:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Just because Eurostile can be made with circles\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    it can\u2019t.\r\nCan you not see the difference, or does it mean nothing to you?\r\nIf
    you\u2019re prepared to go to all this trouble to make these images, you would
    have been better off to invest in the Microgramma font and inspect its paths closely.\r\n\r\nI
    doubt that Microgramma can even be made with a superellipse.\r\nIt\u2019s drawn,
    not plotted.\r\nI suspect it was drawn \uFB01rst with a pencil, and then \uFB01nished
    either freehand with a brush and ink, or by a pen with French Curves. The thing
    about the French curves is that they are not used as a conceptual building block,
    but to \uFB01rm up/cleanly render shapes that are freehand.\r\nPerhaps letters
    such as O were made from a repeated (freehand) quadrant shape as template.\r\nInterestingly,
    Adrian Frutiger made letter artwork from cutouts.\r\nDave Farey also used a knife
    (on peelable Rubylith \u201Cfilm\u201D on acetate) to make the stencil artwork
    at Letraset, a technique he explained at a TypeCon a few years ago."
  created: '2012-10-30 16:28:50'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Well I guess we'll just have to agree to disagree on this.  I do own a copy
    of microgramma and did inspect its curves, and really the only differences I see
    between the shape I made and microgramma's O is that my shape has sharper (smaller)
    corners.  That's easy to fix, just make those four blue circles bigger.  Oh, and
    there are short straight lines at the 12, 3, 6, and 9 o'clock postions in microgramma.
  created: '2012-10-30 16:43:49'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Actually the cut of Microgramma I own, it looks like whoever digitized it
    did a pretty sloppy job.  A lot of unnecessary points in there if you ask me.
    \ Is your's the same, Nick?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/micro_6338.png]"
  created: '2012-10-30 16:52:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t have the font.\r\nI just know (probably through practical experience)
    by looking at images of its glyphs that its shapes are not circular.\r\nEurostile
    probably has cleaner Beziers."
  created: '2012-10-30 17:07:20'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "Equivalent from Eurostile.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EurostileLTStd-Ex2_5206.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-30 17:10:21'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I don't doubt your skill or eyes at all.  IMO, you are the best living type
    designer.  Well, either you or Jocham.  You guys should have an all out type design
    battle to the death for ultimate supremacy!
  created: '2012-10-30 17:18:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So yeah, it's clearly constructed with lines and curves.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBTW
    that's a pretty big overshoot for such a long flat segment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-30 17:19:37'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<em>BTW that's a pretty big overshoot for such a long flat segment.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you addressing Karl, or Aldo's Ghost?"
  created: '2012-10-30 18:16:39'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Ryan\u2014\r\n\r\nWho the hell are you talking to? Don\u2019t bother telling
    us what you\u2019re talking <em>through</em>: it\u2019s apparent with your every
    post\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-30 23:05:05'
date: '2012-10-16 19:32:31'
title: Does anybody really build faces like this anymore?

---
