---
author:
  name: aluminum
  picture: 110335
body: 'Hrant: You&#39;d make a good boss. <BR> <BR>;o&#41; <BR> <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;Adobe is not dumping. I did the math. It&#39;s 25c per font per CPU.  <BR>
    <BR>Dumping is not about per unit calculations. The issue here is a software giant&#39;s
    ruthless marketing practices. <BR> <BR>Like most foundries, ShinnType has several
    kinds of volume discount. However, at the Adobe Classics for Education rate, I&#39;d
    have to sell my complete collection of 108 fonts for around $25. That would smart.
    <BR> <BR>Maybe the smart thing for me to do would be to offer educational institutions
    my entire catalog for free -- a great way to get impressionable young designers
    hooked on my fonts. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-01 17:47:41'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: <i>Maybe the smart thing for me to do would be to offer educational &#62;
    institutions my entire catalog for free -- a great way to get &#62; impressionable
    young designers hooked on my fonts.</i> <BR> <BR>Yes, and speed up the distribution
    of pirated copies of your fonts :-P That&#39;s always a risk... As I said only
    education can solve this.
  created: '2003-08-01 18:10:14'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Hrant said <BR> <BR>&#40;regarding clients&#41; <BR>&#62;Fortunately those
    dinosaurs are getting rarer.  <BR> <BR>What business sense does it make to denigrate
    clients? <BR> <BR>There are many times when face-to-face is a good thing. &#40;No,
    I don&#39;t mean webcam to webcam.&#41; <BR> <BR>There are times when working
    one-on-one with customers in a conference room, etc., can be great. Very beneficial.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>&#40;regarding fonts&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;And along with them the
    types of fonts  <BR>&#62;they&#39;ve so adore for 30 years already. <BR> <BR>&#40;atop
    the earlier&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;a studio and a library of  <BR>&#62;70s throwbacks
    won&#39;t do jackshit for you <BR> <BR> <BR>Again, what are you referring to as
    far as typographic style, with such sweeping statements? <BR> <BR>Please enlighten
    me. I&#39;m curious. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-01 19:44:47'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: Many Adobe fonts make their way into every designer&#39;s list of standbys
    simply by virtue of being bundled with Adobe apps. I remember Spiekermann&#39;s
    Officina really taking off in the US when Illustrator 6.0 came out. Both versions
    were bundled with it, and it started popping up everywhere. <BR> <BR>I would speculate
    that the Adobe Type Department has the financial and technical resources it has
    largely by virtue of other software revenues financing it. I don&#39;t know if
    technologies like OpenType and tools like the FDK could been built and supported
    by a type-only company. If Emigre or FontShop release their own operating system
    and design software, I&#39;ll be the first to buy them, but I&#39;d guess they
    would rather focus on type. <BR> <BR>Adobe has invested heavily in their designs
    and as such should be allowed to market them however they choose. Blaming Adobe
    for this or that design school graduate&#39;s bad judgment or lack of interest
    in &#40;or knowledge of&#41; independent type strikes me as blame misplaced. And
    there is nothing to stop an independent designer from working out a bundling deal
    with some big software company.
  created: '2003-08-01 20:41:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; What business sense does it make to denigrate clients? <BR> <BR>The
    more you care about &#34;business sense&#34;, the less likely you are to develop
    rewarding human partisanship among your peers, and the less likely you are to
    mark your place in culture. That&#39;s how humans work - but of course, to each
    his own. Personally, I think Capitalism is criminal. <BR> <BR>In the late 80s
    I used to work as a salesman at Creative Computers &#40;long live the Amiga&#41;,
    and my best moment wasn&#39;t when I sold a $13,000 system through an honest laudation
    of its merits, but when I put a primadonna customer in his place: he was a bit
    too demanding about returning something, so I became a little rough with him.
    He challenged &#34;Are you the owner of this business?&#34; My reply was of course:
    &#34;I would never own a retail store.&#34; <BR> <BR>I have no reason to blame
    you for accepting work from dinosaurs, but if that makes you complacent about
    adapting to a changing employment dynamic, you might end up stuck in the cold.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; what are you referring to as far as typographic style <BR> <BR>Too
    many type designers -and type users- are stuck in the past. <BR> <BR>Specifically,
    the 70s style might be described as having among other attributes: pulpy, flowing
    connections between stems and arches/horizontals; mannered terminals; and a goddam
    obese x-height. Think ITC.. then banish the sewage from you mind!  :-&#41; <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-01 21:56:20'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: '[off-topic rant] <BR>I have to disagree with some of the comments made about
    graphic design rates. <BR> <BR>Here in Canada, the standard shop rate is around
    $150/hour, with the really good places charging a lot more, and freelancers charging
    somewhat less. But the idea that any yahoo with an Internet connection in Podunk,
    Lebanon can charge $10/hour or something is ridiculous. It&#39;s awfully hard
    to make &#42;any&#42; profit if you&#39;re charging less than $100/hour when you
    have to pay for: <BR> <BR>1. Office space &#40;even cheap office space&#41; <BR>2.
    Expensive computers and upgrades &#40;no, bare-bones systems don&#39;t cut it
    in the design business&#41; <BR>3. A dozen expensive software packages, which
    need to be upgraded frequently <BR>4. A decent library of fonts <BR>5. Lots of
    unbillable time spent on administration, marketing, and accounting <BR>6. Technical
    costs - broadband Internet, domain names, web development space, email addresses
    <BR>7. Deadbeat clients who disappear or don&#39;t pay <BR>8. Your own health,
    dental, and accident insurance <BR> <BR>On top of that, 95% of all clients with
    money live in medium-to-large cities, and 95% of them demand face-to-face contact
    with designers. If you&#39;re going to stay in a small town with low rent, you
    have to settle for the other 5%, and it&#39;s awfully hard to get business from
    someone you&#39;ve never met. And you still need to courier lots of CD-ROMs and
    artwork proofs - ruling out a residence in countries remote from your market.
    <BR> <BR>So no, you can&#39;t charge peanuts and make money in design. Many firms
    claim to do so, but I guarantee they&#39;re using pirated software and fonts,
    like my old employers, who still went broke &#40;they charged only $60/hour&#41;.
    Ditto for all cheap Bangalore design shops. It&#39;s killing the software and
    design industries in a single blow. <BR> <BR>[/off-topic rant] <BR> <BR>So there&#39;s
    not that much of a comparison between graphic designers and strictly type designers.
    <BR> <BR>Paul'
  created: '2003-08-01 22:24:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '&#60;em&#62;It&#39;s killing the software and design industries in a single
    blow.&#60;/em&#62; <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a bit of irony in it, though, as this
    is basically what free capitalism is...and graphic design, for the most part,
    is a big part of keeping free capitalism what it is. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#60;em&#62;So
    there&#39;s not that much of a comparison between graphic designers and strictly
    type designers. &#60;/em&#62; <BR> <BR>Huh? Both have pretty much the same needs
    you listed. The same could be said for a lot of folks...architects, accountants,
    writers, etc. <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-01 22:41:22'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: Well, a freelance type designer really only needs to own a half-decent computer
    and a copy of Fontlab. Most of the expenses above don&#39;t come into it - though
    I don&#39;t doubt that type designers have problems of their own making a living.
    I&#39;ve just begun dabbling in it. <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-08-01 22:56:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Paul, I think your view is seriously skewed. Graphic design isn&#39;t just
    done in places with high cost-of-living, it&#39;s done everywhere, and it&#39;s
    very fair to say most non-Western big cities are much cheaper to live in, and
    not just in terms of renting space, but daily expenses, like goddam pet insurance
    and other idiocities. I was in Armenia for 9 weeks in 2000, and I paid more per
    day for my dog&#39;s kennel back in the US!! Plus I was talking about type design,
    which has much lower overhead costs than graphic design in general. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s
    not impossible to nab clients that are used to paying a lot more to get the same
    results but would like to save money, either by traveling to the client once in
    a while, or through a nice website, etc. <BR> <BR>Clients will gradually require
    less-and-less physical contact, prepare yourself! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-01 22:59:21'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Hrant said <BR> <BR>&#62;I have no reason to blame you for  <BR>&#62;accepting
    work from dinosaurs,  <BR>&#62;but if that makes you complacent about  <BR>&#62;adapting
    to a changing employment  <BR>&#62;dynamic, you might end up stuck in the cold.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Blame? <BR> <BR>Well, I personally love the virtual interaction-only
    customer world. And since 1988 especially &#40;and 300/1200 kbaud modems, ouch!&#41;,
    we&#39;ve had a lot of great clients in far flung places that I&#39;ve never met
    during projects. Or that I only meet eventually at trade shows. <BR> <BR>What
    I was saying was that it makes good business sense to be ready to work with clients
    on their own terms, rather than starting by demanding that they adapt to your
    terms, or [you] won&#39;t work with them. <BR> <BR>Clients come in all kinds.
    A designer, or type/special type projects designer, must be ready to accommodate
    that. <BR> <BR>That clients are demanding of working with designers in an urban
    location, say NYC, certainly doesn&#39;t make them dinosaurs. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
    <BR>&#62;Too many type designers -and type users-  <BR>&#62;are stuck in the past.  <BR>
    <BR> <BR>Yes, too many designers and art directors are have pigeonholed themselves
    slavishly using bad choices from the past.  <BR> <BR>Mediocre choices.  <BR> <BR>Choices
    that whimper and squeak, instead of having a demonstrative tone of voice.  <BR>
    <BR>Choices that are just plain wrong for both subject matter and for the text
    itself that the copywriter has entrusted to them to breathe graphic life into.
    <BR> <BR>That&#39;s the biggest sin in graphic design today. <BR> <BR>I blame
    desktop publishing, to a degree, and the limited availability at the outset.  <BR>
    <BR>Plus, as noted elsewhere &#40;appropriately&#41; the simple dumping of certain
    fonts and families into the market along with bundling. <BR> <BR>Application font
    bundling = bungling. <BR> <BR>It means that the marketers have run out of competitive
    ideas. And that the application itself really also ought to be suspect. At least
    that release version. Bundled fonts are disguises on a bigger problem. <BR> <BR>
    <BR> <BR>&#62;Specifically, the 70s style might  <BR>&#62;be described as having
    among other  <BR>&#62;attributes: pulpy, flowing connections  <BR>&#62;between
    stems and arches/horizontals;  <BR>&#62;mannered terminals; and a goddam  <BR>&#62;obese
    x-height. Think ITC.. then banish  <BR>&#62;the sewage from you mind! :-&#41;
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Why be closed-minded?  <BR> <BR>We&#39;re working in the most creative
    medium in the world! <BR> <BR>Well, it&#39;s true that some type designers &#40;me,
    for one&#41; love many of the type attributes &#40;such as those you cite&#41;
    that were actually &#39;discovered&#39; in the late 1800s and early 1900s, and
    then brought to bear again in some great designs of the &#39;60s, &#39;70s and
    &#39;80s. <BR> <BR>While you might prefer working in an oldstyle derivation, not
    everybody does. <BR> <BR>And for good reason: Putting to work many of the technique
    lessons learned by not only earlier work like by designers working with Barnhart
    Brothers &amp; Spindler, American Type Founders, Lanston Monotype and others,
    can lead to some very powerful, very evocative, very exciting typefaces. <BR>
    <BR>Although International Typeface Corporation can be blamed, like any foundry
    releasing a very aggressive program over time, for putting out some faces of questionable
    value, they and their various stellar talented employees and licensed artists
    have to be commended for also doing some phenomenal work. <BR> <BR>Also, ITC&#39;s
    big claim to fame, though, was its original goal: standardizing availabilities
    of type families throughout all markets. With the idea being that finally, there
    would be ideal commonality of availability everywhere. <BR> <BR>But this wasn&#39;t
    solely about bald greed, or about creating a monopoly. This was about helping
    the typographer &#40;the trade type shop&#41; clean up its act and to provide
    better quality resources to designers on the local level. <BR> <BR>Before ITC,
    various &#40;mostly metal-setting&#41; shops in various markets basically bought
    only what the owner happened to like, with rare exception. ITC presented and made
    very attractive, the concept of buying typefaces on a subscription program, as
    they released them, to force the availability into each market. <BR> <BR>With
    the outstanding work outgrowing from Photo-Lettering, Inc., by Lubalin, Carnase,
    Stan, Benguiat and so many untold others behind the scenes, Ed Rondthaler and
    Ed Gottschall, and others there, got it to work. <BR> <BR>Their literature design
    and circulation also fueled a massive growth of interest in typography &#40;whether
    today, one likes the particular styles, or not&#41;. <BR> <BR>And thank goodness
    for their efforts then. Because just as with the somewhat later development, sell-in
    &#40;versus bigger pocketed rivals&#41; and acceptance of PostScript itself by
    Adobe Systems, if that ITC font subscription program failed, I believe that none
    of us would have had the opportunity to be here today either designing fonts or
    contributing to this list. <BR> <BR>Others emulated them, but only after ITC led
    the charge. <BR> <BR>&#40;Now, don&#39;t get me wrong here. I&#39;m only so-so
    on ITC. But I think they did a lot for all of us that we should be grateful for.
    Much of what they did today is forgotten, and they&#39;re simply left with this
    amorphous noose hanging around their neck of dragging typography down with their
    typefaces. ITC Busorama, one of my favorites, notwithstanding.&#41; <BR> <BR>Back
    to x-height and ITC&#39;s typefaces: <BR> <BR>A lot of designers seem to have
    gratefully, blindly, inherited the view from some know-little pundits in the press
    during the mid-1980s &#40;yes, that far back, this snowball started rolling&#41;
    that a &#39;large&#39; x-height is just out and out bad. Bad concept. Bad design.
    &#40;&#39;Large&#39; itself as a descriptor being kind of an amoeba. Hard to pin
    down.&#41; <BR> <BR>That&#39;s just not true. <BR> <BR>But decision about ideal
    x-height for a design has to be carefully considered along with all other attributes,
    naturally. <BR> <BR>There are a lot of terrific large x-height typefaces, many
    of mine included. One of the reasons why my TF Habitat has been such a strong
    seller, consistently, since 1988, has been the intrinsic power provided in large
    part by its x-height. The balance versus traditional attributes such as the Venetian
    style traits provides added interest. <BR> <BR>In TF Habitat&#39;s case, the large
    x-height, and the way I design it on the body &#40;within the em-square height&#41;
    contribute to its looking large. <BR> <BR>This is a tremendous advantage that
    our users can immediately benefit from in their design work. <BR> <BR>Not only
    are shapes clear and highly legible due somewhat to the openness provided by the
    larger-looking x-height. But the faces hold open great legibility in tiny sizes.
    They usually look about one to two point sizes than they really are. While not
    setting any wider. <BR> <BR>Get it? x-height, if played correctly, can contribute
    to incredibly powerful design. But you just have to learn how to use it. Just
    as you have to learn how to avoid drawing type too coarsely. Or, how to properly
    construct a serif so that it doesn&#39;t overpower. <BR> <BR>I have to say, too,
    that ITC Garamond takes a lot of heat for no reason. True, it might not be a traditionalist&#39;s
    Garamond. That&#39;s all well and good. But I believe that Tony Stan really did
    a watershed body of work in ITC Garamond, and especially in the Condensed. <BR>
    <BR>Not because it has been synonymous with Apple Computer for so long. After
    all, ITC Garamond first came out in 1975-77, as ITC continued to add the Condensed
    series. <BR> <BR>Around late 1983, during its corporate identity revamping, I
    recall Tom Carnase&#39;s NYC studio and perhaps Apple&#39;s ad agency at the time
    &#40;BBDO? Or ChiatDay?&#41; chose it for its modernness and rubbery adaptability.  <BR>
    <BR>It was a great choice for Apple, in its original, photo-headline set form.
    Really splendid. Nothing in print at the time could touch it. &#40;And at the
    time, there was a lot of other great print also being done.&#41; <BR> <BR>It was
    only later &#40;1986?&#41;, when Apple apparently commissioned Bitstream&#40;?&#41;
    to adapt ITC Garamond to some weird amalgam of normal, semi-condensed and condensed
    letters, that things started to go haywire, with an apparent in-house version
    then snaking its way into their print. <BR> <BR>Stem weights started to modulate
    out of control. Spacing was generally atrocious. I wondered a lot why no one seemed
    to care, judging from the typography in the ads. <BR> <BR>And looking back through
    a lot of reference regarding the origins of Hamburgefonts, for a different thread
    here, I was reminded again of the sheer number of very horrid implementations
    of ITC Garamond out there during the &#39;70s and &#39;80s. Despite, I&#39;m sure,
    ITC&#39;s best efforts at continuity. <BR> <BR>Look at H. Berthold AG&#39;s no-bones-about-it,
    I&#39;m-going-to-redraw-your-supplied-art-no-matter-what-you-say stance. But at
    least, they did it pretty well. Others, like Itek, Autologic, and many others,
    did horrible conversions of ITC font masters. <BR> <BR>&#40;The baseline for overall
    comparison, ITC&#39;s own specimens, were for the most part typeset on the Alphatype
    text-setting system, by the way.&#41; <BR> <BR>So, I, for one, want to say, thank
    you, Tony Stan. I think you&#39;ve done a fantastic job. And I&#39;m glad to know
    you, if only through your work. <BR> <BR>Whether considered as a poster child
    of &#39;70s style or simply on its own merits, the original ITC Garamond and Condensed
    really is amazing. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>Some advice to newcomers to the type world,
    and to graphic designers trying to understand the nature of type and how it can
    relate to your work:  <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t blindly listen and parrot the blather
    about how bad x-heights are, how bad all modern design is, etc. that gets spouted.
    <BR> <BR>Step back and study type for yourself.  <BR> <BR>There are quite a few
    people who are given forums in print and online to speak about type as though
    they know what they&#39;re talking about. And they don&#39;t. At all.  <BR> <BR>More
    than half the time, the editors and writers and others who provide them forums
    have no real idea either, but have pages to fill on deadline. <BR> <BR>That creates
    a real witches&#39; brew of generally very bad advice. <BR> <BR>And &#42;&#42;that&#42;&#42;
    is what really drags typography down. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-02 16:41:24'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: To Paul Davidson - <BR> <BR>&#40;re costs of doing business&#41; <BR> <BR>
    <BR>Excellent post. Didn&#39;t sound like a rant at all. I thought it was very
    well thought out and presented. <BR> <BR>Thanks very much. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-02 16:47:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; What I was saying was that it makes good business sense .... <BR> <BR>Did
    you even read what I wrote? <BR> <BR>&#62; .... certainly doesn&#39;t make them
    dinosaurs. <BR> <BR>Of course it does. You want them to have bad breath and tiny
    forearms to be dinosaurs? <BR> <BR>&#62; Why be closed-minded? <BR> <BR>How is
    having ideas about the requirements of cultural <BR>progress &#40;as opposed to
    making money, to buy crap&#41; being closed-minded? <BR> <BR>&#62; While you might
    prefer working in an oldstyle derivation, not everybody does. <BR> <BR>The point
    is: <BR>1&#41; The more you like the 70s or Old-Style or anything else, the less
    you can mark cultural progress. <BR>2&#41; It&#39;s good to tame what you like
    personally - otherwise you&#39;re doing much more Art than Craft. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    And thank goodness for their efforts then. <BR> <BR>Yeah, where would we be without
    ITC Garamond...  :-/ <BR>One of the worse abominations in our craft. <BR> <BR>To
    be fair, the technical/marketing stuff ITC did was great. But in terms of typographic
    culture, even if you think it was great 30 years ago, it&#39;s important to let
    it die in peace already. Move forward, irrespective of how much nostalgia you
    harbor. <BR> <BR>x-Heights: anything close to to 70s x-height is indeed bad, for
    readability. <BR>The reason comes simply from the way humans read: <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html</a> <BR>Legibility
    &#40;versus readability&#41; is a mere shadow of the true functionality of text
    fonts. <BR> <BR>And the fact that users admittedly don&#39;t realize a large x-height
    is bad for them is the reason they need us designers in first place! In fact it
    has been empirically shown that users prefer font sizes somewhat too large for
    optimal reading. The reason is the difference between deliberative versus immersive
    reading. <BR> <BR>Also, it goes without saying that readability is totally unrelated
    to sales! BTW, throughout your arguments is seems that everything is eventually
    brought around to the <i>business</i> of type... <BR> <BR>&#62; While not setting
    any wider. <BR> <BR>This is dead false. <BR> <BR>&#62; Step back and study type
    for yourself. <BR> <BR>Study <i>readability</i> first, otherwise you&#39;re just
    playing in the dark. And you&#39;ll recede into the crevices of history. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-02 18:02:37'
- author:
    name: hawk
    picture: 110225
  body: 'go to : <a href="http://instruct.uwo.ca/mit/220/dreamweaver/tables2.htm"
    target="_blank">http://instruct.uwo.ca/mit/220/dreamweaver/tables2.htm</a> <BR>
    <BR>and see why you don&#39;t need &#34;free&#34;/free fonts. see the &#34;Great&#34;
    design - &#34;Bodoni Bold Condensed&#34;  &#40;the  title about the designer&#41;
    <BR> <BR> <BR>David Hamuel'
  created: '2003-08-02 18:17:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Obviously, the graphic came out of the research, not my own imagination!
    About five years of research at this point, and still going strong, although with
    diminishing &#34;returns&#34;. I admit I haven&#39;t done my own field research
    &#40;too expensive&#41;, but by reading and analyzing probably a hundred empirical
    and anecdotal pieces of reputable research by now, I&#39;ve managed to &#34;converge
    the model&#34; so to speak. BTW, a large part of this has been published in my
    &#34;Improving the Tool&#34; essay in Gunnar Swanson&#39;s &#34;Graphic Design
    &amp; Reading&#34;. Feel free to have a rebuttal published! I always welcome any
    objective challenge. <BR> <BR>I have nothing to gain by promoting or striking
    down obese x-heights - in fact my early Armenian work suffered from such obesity!
    I did a font for a magazine, and everybody thought it was very legible and handsome,
    but after about 3 issues there were enough letters from readers complaining of
    reading strain that we had to change it, and they commissioned me to make a digital
    version of an old-standby, Aramian, an ugly font by all accounts but with a proven
    track record of good readability. Back then I had no idea why Aramian worked better,
    but now I&#39;ve come to understand how my original was fatally flawed: mostly
    it was simply the obese x-height. Armenian actually has a greater dependence on
    extenders than Latin, but Latin still relies on extenders heavily for readability.
    <BR> <BR>BTW, I don&#39;t expect anybody to automatically take my word for it,
    but if you&#39;re going to counter somebody&#39;s theories, you need to do some
    research of your own! If you don&#39;t bother doing that, you just have to trust
    those who have. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>James, if you&#39;re thinking about your
    own extensive experience with signage, I&#39;d point out a key difference: you
    don&#39;t use the parafovea in that type of reading. Two parallel clues are that:
    sans fonts work better for signage, but not for for books &#40;I hope you agree&#41;;
    and that signage likes loose letterspacing while books like it tight. <BR> <BR>Another
    &#34;mainstream&#34; clue is that all-caps text is harder to read &#40;which I
    hope everybody accepts&#41;. The only real reason for this is that all-UC boumas
    are far less distinctive. <BR> <BR>That said, any &#34;conclusion&#34; is always
    tentative, I admit. If one day I see enough evidence that I&#39;m wrong, I&#39;ll
    have to change my stance. <BR> <BR>Here&#39;s another &#34;mushy conclusion&#34;:
    <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/read_rx.gif" target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/read_rx.gif</a>
    <BR> <BR>This is what might be called a &#34;qualitative graph&#34;: the deeper
    the level of detail, the more tentative it is. For example, the point where the
    curve touches the maximum up top, and especially the way the curve changes concavity
    has to be seen in more abstract terms than for example the fact that it goes up
    and back down, which is a very reliable piece of theory. <BR> <BR>In contrast
    to Readability, here&#39;s a graph of Legibility: <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/read_lx.gif"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/read_lx.gif</a> <BR>which
    is actually derived from combining Visibility &#40;simply being able to see something
    is there&#41; and Decipherability &#40;the ability to map a shape to a meaning
    irrespective of perception&#41;: <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/read_dvx.gif"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/read_dvx.gif</a> <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-02 21:17:22'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: 'Hrant wrote: <BR><i>It was only later &#40;1986?&#41;, when Apple apparently
    commissioned Bitstream&#40;?&#41; to adapt ITC Garamond to some weird amalgam
    of normal, semi-condensed and condensed letters, that things started to go haywire,
    with an apparent in-house version then snaking its way into their print.</i> <BR>
    <BR>I really don&#39;t agree with that. The Bitstream version is mush better than
    the ITC condensed version. Firstly, it was condensed by only 80% rather than ITC&#39;s
    64%. The joints and details are much better drawn than the original ITC. I had
    already pointed this out in another thread: <a href="http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/show.pl?30/13191"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/show.pl?30/13191</a> <BR> <BR>&#60;img&#62;
    <BR> <BR>Early on in my typography &#39;career&#39; &#40;i.e. high school&#41;
    I really had an ITC Garamond &#39;phase&#39;. We used it on our school magazine.
    It was my idea because I thought it was such a beautiful face. I actually thought
    that it was <i>the</i> original Garamond. While it could hardly be called a Garamond
    per se, it was nonetheless a significant player in our type history. I wouldn&#39;t
    call it an abomination. But that&#39;s just me. <BR> <BR>Dorling Kindersly still
    uses ITC Garamond for their eye-witness guides. And it works very well.'
  created: '2003-08-02 21:54:19'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: 'Well, the image tag didn&#39;t work. Here&#39;s the link to it: <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/11724.gif"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/11724.gif</a> <BR>
    <BR>Have you ever wondered where Sarah &#40;who started this thread&#41; went?
    She probably got scared off, thinking either we&#39;re a bunch of font police
    or plain wierdos!'
  created: '2003-08-02 21:59:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: It&#39;s more than a &#34;review&#34;, it&#39;s an attempt at extracting usable
    conclusions, and using them! I don&#39;t think the definition of &#34;research&#34;
    is limited to hooking up tachistoscopes to college students. <BR> <BR>My graphic
    is not Proof - I generally avoid using that word anyway. It&#39;s a way to convey/visualize
    what really happens during reading, and even though it&#39;s simplified, it helps.
    <BR> <BR>True, there is no direct empirical evidence of what&#39;s a good x-height
    - that&#39;s way too specific for there to be any money in it, and contemporary
    academia runs on money invested by corporations who make sure the results are
    useful to their bottom line. And it would be very difficult to quantify it anyway
    - instead it&#39;s a matter of grasping the bigger picture. <BR> <BR>There is
    in fact a lot of &#34;adjacent&#34; empirical evidence &#40;like the fact that
    all-caps is harder to read even though it&#39;s bigger, and that about 2/3-rds
    of [immersive] reading happens in the parafovea&#41; as well as a lot of anecdotal
    evidence, like the kind that says serif fonts are better for reading. That&#39;s
    certainly true - even some of the Bauhaus boys had to break down and admit it
    - but that hasn&#39;t been proven either! <BR> <BR>One telling indication that
    an x-height can be too large for good readability &#40;just like it can also be
    too small&#41; is that the optimal x-height varies with point size. But there
    are many other &#34;clues&#34;, and once you have in your head a relatively clear
    model of how [immersive] reading actually works, almost all these little observations/opinions
    come together very nicely. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Keith, I didn&#39;t write that
    stuff, Joe did. &#40;Although &#34;abomination&#34; was mine.&#41; <BR> <BR>And
    Sarah was half right.  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-02 22:07:40'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: <i>Keith, I didn&#39;t write that stuff, Joe did. &#40;Although &#34;abomination&#34;
    was mine.&#41;</i> <BR> <BR>Sorry, Hrant. Misread.
  created: '2003-08-02 22:24:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; an unsupported hypothesis <BR> <BR>Unsupported by direct empirical
    research, but otherwise supported very nicely. <BR>In the end, it&#39;s all <i>based
    directly</i> on research, not my personal fancy. <BR> <BR>&#62; don&#39;t ask
    any of us to accept them for more than what they are <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not! But
    don&#39;t use your personal emotional preference for large x-heights to avoid
    the logical conclusions I&#39;ve drawn from a reliable aggregate of scholarly
    research spanning a hundred years. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-02 23:29:21'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Hrant wrote <BR> <BR>&#62;Did you even read what I wrote? <BR> <BR>Always.
    Thoroughly.  <BR> <BR>I understand, of course, that your views must work for you
    just fine. <BR> <BR>The only reason I&#39;m bothering with debating this is for
    the benefit of recent graduates entering design, primarily. To counter disinformation
    that they might otherwise take to heart and derail their understanding process
    with, because they don&#39;t know any better yet. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;The
    more you like the 70s or Old-Style  <BR>&#62;or anything else, the less you can
    mark  <BR>&#62;cultural progress. <BR> <BR> <BR>Absolutely not so. <BR> <BR>For
    example, in my case, I enjoy the older stuff, then I set it aside and move ahead.
    From the very first typefaces I designed, for me, it was all about learning from
    the past, but starting fresh. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;x-Heights: anything close
    to to 70s x-height is indeed bad, for readability. <BR> <BR>&#40;and, to my commenting
    about my TF Habitat&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; While not setting any wider.  <BR>
    <BR>&#62;This is dead false. <BR> <BR> <BR><b>Oh, baloney.</b> <BR> <BR>I should
    know how my own typefaces were designed to work, and do work, should I not?  <BR>
    <BR>I don&#39;t mean to sound self-serving, but I&#39;ve been successfully designing
    typefaces this way for nearly 30 years. &#40;Although, I never wake up in the
    morning and say, &#34;Dang it all, I&#39;m designin&#39; me a tall x-height typeface
    to-day! Yessiree!&#34;&#41; <BR> <BR>And for us &#40;as an example&#41;, for the
    most part, the kind of features/advantages I mentioned are what our customers
    respond to. Breathlessly. Because they so rarely get those features elsewhere
    &#40;to quote them directly, often, before we get around to telling them&#41;.
    <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62; Step back and study type for yourself.  <BR>&#62;Study
    readability first, &#40;...&#41; <BR> <BR>&#40;and later&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;...but
    if you&#39;re going to counter  <BR>&#62;somebody&#39;s theories, you need to
    do some  <BR>&#62;research of your own... <BR> <BR> <BR>I beg your pardon? <BR>
    <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;BTW, throughout your arguments is seems  <BR>&#62;that everything
    is eventually brought  <BR>&#62;around to the  <i>business</i>of type... <BR>
    <BR>Well, this is, after all, a business. Why apologize for that? Treating our
    business as a business has been a good thing, and continues to be. &#40;And again,
    we all want the economy to get better, right? Businesses being run as businesses,
    responsibly, will go a long way toward economic recovery.&#41; <BR> <BR>Let&#39;s
    stop this casting &#39;business&#39; as an evil ogre. It&#39;s merely a classification.
    Like &#39;serif&#39;. The type industry would not have survived over the centuries
    and be here today for all of us to enjoy and be a part of, if not for those who
    ran their typefounding and typesetting businesses as businesses. <BR> <BR>If you
    want to run a type design career as a hobby, well, have fun. <BR>&#40;Really.
    I think you should have fun going about what you do.&#41; <BR> <BR>But the only
    thing that matters to me in the midst of a type concept is the proper fleshing
    out of the design.  <BR> <BR>Of course, unless you spend all your time cloning,
    or doing randomly selected, open ended &#39;research&#39;, and if you expect to
    have customers, it&#39;s important to create what customers might actually want
    at some point. Yes? <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Yeah, where would we be without ITC
    Garamond...  <BR>&#62; :-/ One of the worse abominations in our craft. <BR> <BR>Too
    bad. Again, if you haven&#39;t seen the original Tony Stan workmanship.  <BR>
    <BR>Clue: What you see in the MacConnection catalog is an example of how some
    licensing foundry &#40;or otherwise&#41; got hold of it and screwed it up. Horrid
    digitizing. Horrid spacing. Not the original. It&#39;s not the normal width version,
    squeezed, either. No idea what it is. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;And the fact that
    users admittedly don&#39;t  <BR>&#62;realize a large x-height is bad for them  <BR>&#62;is
    the reason they need us designers in  <BR>&#62;first place! In fact it has been
    empirically  <BR>&#62;shown that users prefer font sizes somewhat  <BR>&#62;too
    large for optimal reading. The reason is  <BR>&#62;the difference between deliberative
    versus  <BR>&#62;immersive reading. <BR> <BR> <BR>Is that right??! Well, Shazaam!
    <BR> <BR>Now when you say &#39;users&#39; above, do you mean &#39;art directors,
    publication designers, graphic designers&#39;? Or, &#39;readers&#39;?  <BR> <BR>Just
    curious. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#40;and later, about one of your own earlier magazine
    typefaces&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;...but after about 3 issues there were  <BR>&#62;enough
    letters from readers complaining  <BR>&#62;of reading strain that we had to change
    it... <BR> <BR> <BR>Fine. That happens sometimes. Live and learn. As you know,
    especially in editorial environments, things are often rushed &#40;including creative&#41;.  <BR>
    <BR>There&#39;s no need to feel badly &#40;not that you do&#41; for having to
    tweak things over time. And of course, the other thing worth saying is that, especially
    in an editorial environment, you&#39;re lucky you got feedback you could use to
    effect change that was right for that kind of publication, that culture, that
    history, that reader. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Back then I had no idea why Aramian  <BR>&#62;worked
    better, but now I&#39;ve come to  <BR>&#62;understand how my original was fatally  <BR>&#62;flawed:
    mostly it was simply the  <BR>&#62;obese x-height. Armenian actually has  <BR>&#62;a
    greater dependence on extenders than Latin,  <BR>&#62;but Latin still relies on
    extenders heavily  <BR>&#62;for readability. <BR> <BR>Ok; fine.  <BR> <BR>The
    project actually required more research at understanding the reader that simply
    wasn&#39;t done, and neither the publisher, editors or writers volunteered any
    opinions upfront. And so, it was launched into as &#39;art for art&#39;s sake&#39;
    &#40;I&#39;ll assume, from your description&#41;. And later, with feedback, you
    had your market research for free &#40;except for the disgruntled readers&#41;.
    Great! <BR> <BR><b>By the way, that kind of outcome is exactly why upfront, face-to-face
    meetings are a good thing; often crucial. And cannot be replaced by virtual meetings.</b>
    Otherwise, designers and clients often learn the hard way, as you, unfortunately,
    did in that instance. <BR> <BR>I still don&#39;t see how that transplants to a
    despising of all fonts whose x-heights transcend the lowercase mean line. <BR>
    <BR>And what&#39;s with the use of &#39;obese&#39;? Having an x-height above the
    mean line does not render a typeface &#39;obese&#39;. <BR> <BR>Not to split hairlines,
    but as a vertical measurement, it doesn&#39;t seem an x-height can possibly be
    &#39;fat&#39;, which is what &#39;obese&#39; means.  <BR> <BR>&#39;Tallish&#39;
    might be better description, if I may suggest it. &#40;Granted, it lacks sensationalism.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Oh, and unless the design is just plain flawed, a tallish x-height does
    not &#40;emphatically&#41; impede readability due to an inability to properly
    provide ascenders and descenders. Ascenders and descenders themselves are a related
    but separate consideration and must be designed properly. <BR> <BR> <BR>On legibility
    research: Quote a bibliography of what available empirical research that you&#39;re
    referring to, by date, location and sample size, if you&#39;re so inclined, please.  <BR>
    <BR>And most importantly, list the specific typefaces, by typeface weight and
    point size. <BR> <BR>I would think that doing so would be doing your readers a
    great service. <BR> <BR>Thanks! <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-02 23:35:10'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Keith Tam wrote  <BR> <BR>&#62;Dorling Kindersly still uses ITC Garamond for
    their eye-witness guides. And it works very well. <BR> <BR> <BR>Of course, part
    of their secret is that they use &#40;as I recall from some of their printed materials
    here&#41; a good cut of it. <BR> <BR>Plus, their graphic designers use it very
    well. <BR> <BR>Is Dorling Kindersley&#39;s design and marketing lodged in the
    past? I don&#39;t think so. <BR> <BR>The design breaks through, and is gorgeous.
    <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>
  created: '2003-08-02 23:40:40'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Keith Tam said <BR> <BR>&#62;Well, the image tag didn&#39;t work.  <BR>&#62;Here&#39;s
    the link to it:  <BR>&#62;<a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/11724.gif"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/11724.gif</a>  <BR>
    <BR> <BR>Keith, thanks for posting the sample. <BR> <BR>What you show at right
    as Light Condensed isn&#39;t the original. And something was definitely up with
    that &#39;c&#39;. <BR> <BR>Before I wrote this, I&#39;ve scanned a sample from
    one of ITC&#39;s 1977 specimens, and compared what you show.  <BR> <BR>Astonishingly,
    it&#39;s markedly different from both your samples! <BR> <BR>Would you mind if
    I added a third showing to your 72-ppi .gif, taken from one of ITC&#39;s 1977
    specimens, and post it as a 72-ppi .jpg for the list? <BR> <BR>&#40;With apologies
    to ITC, and of course declaring that it is '
  created: '2003-08-03 00:10:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I&#39;ve been successfully designing typefaces <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t you
    realize by now that we have very different measures of success? <BR> <BR>&#62;
    I beg your pardon? <BR> <BR>What do you know about how humans read, and where
    did you learn it? <BR> <BR>&#62; Treating our business as a business has been
    a good thing <BR> <BR>For whom? <BR> <BR>&#62; Let&#39;s stop this casting &#39;business&#39;
    as an evil ogre. It&#39;s merely a classification. <BR> <BR>Yeah, and child laborers
    in sweat shops are a classification of worker. <BR> <BR>&#62; things are often
    rushed <BR> <BR>My original font was not rushed. The magazine was begging me to
    finish it because the launch of the magazine was waiting for it - I told them
    they would get it when it was ready. <BR> <BR>And nobody understood why it wasn&#39;t
    working, certainly not the readers! The reason was &#34;subvisible&#34;, not something
    a focus group could have pinpointed. You can&#39;t rely on readers for precise
    feedback on subconscious issues. <BR> <BR>&#62; There&#39;s no need to feel badly
    &#40;not that you do&#41; for having to tweak things over time. <BR> <BR>Considering
    it was my second-ever outline font &#40;the first was a disaster&#41; I don&#39;t
    feel bad at all. I&#39;m just very happy I snapped out of large x-height lala-land.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; exactly why upfront, face-to-face meetings are a good thing <BR>
    <BR>No amount of face-to-face meeting would have prevented that problem. It was
    a matter of people reading a lot of text in it, and contacting the magazine/me
    &#40;preferably via email these days&#41; with their complaint. Sure, this could/should
    have been done in advance, but that has nothing to do with &#34;face-to-face&#34;.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; a despising of all fonts whose x-heights transcend the lowercase
    mean line. <BR> <BR>Huh? <BR>First of all, I don&#39;t &#34;despise&#34; large
    x-heights - they&#39;re useful for very small sizes and display purposes. But
    they reduce readability. Do you care? And secondly, what do you mean by &#34;mean
    line&#34;? If you mean 50% of the ascender height, that&#39;s actually pretty
    small for an x-height! <BR> <BR>&#62; a tallish x-height does not &#40;emphatically&#41;
    impede readability due <BR>&#62; to an inability to properly provide ascenders
    and descenders. <BR> <BR>The vertical em-space is taken up by: x-height, ascenders,
    descenders, and internal leading. Obviously, the larger the x-height the less
    room left for everything else. Duh. <BR> <BR>&#62; Quote a bibliography <BR> <BR>Read
    my essay in GD&amp;R - a good chunk of it is there. <BR> <BR>&#62; list the specific
    typefaces <BR> <BR>You&#39;re not reading what I&#39;m writing. <BR> <BR>-- <BR>
    <BR>&#62; Where is the support without direct empirical research? <BR> <BR>Where
    is the support for the opinion that serif fonts read better in books? <BR> <BR>&#62;
    I suggest you get in the habit of included annotations <BR> <BR>In a discussion
    group like this?! For now, please read my essay! But eventually I&#39;ll get more
    formal, don&#39;t worry. I&#39;m not ready yet. <BR> <BR>&#62; I don&#39;t see
    any emotion on my part of this at all. <BR> <BR>On Typo-L you recently wrote:
    <BR>&#34;[My fonts] have that large x-height that I have become so attached to
    recently.&#34; <BR> <BR>&#62; now your having us believe that you have hundreds
    of years <BR>&#62; of reliable scholarly research <BR> <BR>You&#39;re completely
    skewing what I said. I said one hundred years &#40;starting from Javal&#41;, and
    I was saying that <i>these days</i> it&#39;s extremely unlikely to see funding
    for research that <i>specifically</i> measures optimal x-height. <BR> <BR>-- <BR>
    <BR>Dear huge x-height boys: just give it up! Your fonts are less readable. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 00:27:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; There&#39;s no need to feel badly &#40;not that you do&#41; for having
    to tweak things over time. <BR> <BR>I forgot to add: <BR>It didn&#39;t need a
    &#34;tweak&#34;, it was fundamentally flawed &#40;for magazine setting&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 00:35:50'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Hrant wrote  <BR> <BR>&#62;Yeah, and child laborers in sweat shops  <BR>&#62;are
    a classification of worker. <BR> <BR> <BR>I abhor child labor, too. But which
    typefounders, now or past, employ&#40;ed&#41; underage workers? <BR> <BR>And how
    does unfair child labor out there in the world apply to running a typefoundry
    as a business? <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;What do you know about how humans
    read,  <BR>&#62;and where did you learn it? <BR> <BR>Um, apart from the documented
    research, about 30 years of drawing typefaces, and about 20 years of successfully
    selling fonts to hundreds of thousands of customers, nearly world wide. And continually
    engaging customers and learning from feedback. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;You can&#39;t
    rely on readers for precise feedback  <BR>on subconscious issues. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    sorry; I thought you had said that readers were &#40;quite consciously&#41; saying,
    &#40;quote&#41;, <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;...but after about 3 issues there were  <BR>&#62;&#62;enough
    letters from readers complaining  <BR>&#62;&#62;of reading strain that we had
    to change it... <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;The vertical em-space is taken up
    by:  <BR>&#62;x-height, ascenders, descenders,  <BR>&#62;and internal leading.
    Obviously,  <BR>&#62;the larger the x-height the less room  <BR>&#62;left for
    everything else. Duh. <BR> <BR> <BR>Oh, yes, sorry, I forgot to mention: <b>Duh
    to infinity.</b> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;You&#39;re not reading what I&#39;m writing.
    <BR> <BR>Yes, I think that I am. To the extent that it&#39;s readable. <BR> <BR>
    <BR> <BR>&#40;re providing annotation&#41; <BR>&#62;In a discussion group like
    this?!  <BR>&#62;For now, please read my essay!  <BR>&#62;But eventually I&#39;ll
    get more formal,  <BR>&#62;don&#39;t worry. I&#39;m not ready yet. <BR> <BR> <BR>Oh,
    ok. <BR> <BR>I guess I&#39;d hoped that you had annotated material &#40;such as
    your essay&#41; on hand to quote from, with copy and paste. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;On
    Typo-L you recently wrote:  <BR>&#62;&#34;[My fonts] have that large x-height  <BR>&#62;that
    I have become so attached to recently.&#34; <BR> <BR> <BR>Wasn&#39;t me. I haven&#39;t
    bothered with Typo-L in probably more than a year. <BR> <BR>And besides, if a
    type designer says that, so what? <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;You&#39;re completely
    skewing what I said. ... <BR> <BR>Oh, ok. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Dear huge x-height
    boys:  <BR>&#62;just give it up! Your fonts  <BR>&#62;are less readable. <BR>
    <BR> <BR>Sorry. Not likely.  <BR> <BR>There are several kinds of fonts that are
    less readable: <BR> <BR>1&#41; Fonts suffering from bad concept; <BR>2&#41; Fonts
    suffering from bad execution; <BR>3&#41; Fonts whose weight range is badly selected;
    <BR>4&#41; Fonts whose width doesn&#39;t suit the concept; <BR>5&#41; Fonts that
    are a bad selection for their reproduction environment &#40;too light for newsprint&#41;;
    <BR>6&#41; Fonts whose point size, leading and weight are wrongly selected for
    the material and platform &#40;book, ad, etc.&#41; and reader &#40;toddler, young,
    midage, elderly&#41; where they are being expected to perform. <BR> <BR>Other
    than that, x-height itself doesn&#39;t injure fonts. <BR> <BR>Yes, there have
    been some bad designs out there over the years that also have tallish x-height.  <BR>
    <BR>Now, it might be possible for a later type designer to see that a different
    x-height might&#39;ve better suited the original concept.  <BR> <BR>But the x-height
    itself would not have been what made it a bad design. <BR> <BR>By the way, I don&#39;t
    believe that either Jim or myself are &#34;huge x-height boys&#34;. I, for one,
    don&#39;t like that pigeonholing. <BR> <BR>I, for one, design with an open mind.
    <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 01:03:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "&#62; the documented research <BR> <BR>? <BR>What research is that, exactly?
    <BR> <BR>&#62; 30 years of drawing typefaces <BR> <BR>The act of drawing typefaces
    teaches nothing about how they are read as text. <BR> <BR>&#62; 20 years of successfully
    selling fonts <BR> <BR>Sales are only slightly related to readability. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    feedback <BR> <BR>Feedback from designers is flawed in terms of readability because
    they mostly don&#39;t understand it [either]. <BR> <BR>Feedback from readers is
    flawed because they can&#39;t convey their subconscious &#40;which is where immersive
    reading largely happens&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62; I thought you had said that readers
    were &#40;quite consciously&#41; saying <BR> <BR>Readers can and do report general
    problems, like &#34;I get tired quickly when reading this magazine.&#34; They
    can&#39;t and don&#39;t say things like &#34;The font&#39;s x-height is so large
    that it&#39;s inhibiting good bouma formation.&#34; <BR> <BR>It&#39;s like when
    you take your car to the mechanic, you let him do his job - and hopefully he knows
    that there&#39;s such a thing as too much oil in the pan for example. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    copy and paste <BR> <BR>OK, sure, here are the Notes: <BR> <BR>&#34; <BR>1.\tASCII
    is the standardized code that most computers use to assign numerical value to
    letters and other characters. <BR>2.\tThe Korean Hangul writing system uses a
    hybrid scheme of alphabetic syllables that possesses the advantages of each while
    avoiding their drawbacks. For a description of this most admirable script refer
    to Taylor &amp; Taylor&#39;s The Psychology of Reading, chapter 5. <BR>3.\t&#34;The
    most serious defect of the English alphabet is that only 23 letters are available
    to represent about 44 phonemes. &#40;Of the 26 letters, &#39;c, q and x&#39; are
    superfluous.&#41;&#34; Taylor &amp; Taylor, p. 93. <BR>4.\tBeagles also make wonderful
    companions, however. <BR>5.\tFor a meticulous description of punchcutting consult
    La Gravure du Poin"
  created: '2003-08-03 01:44:47'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Hrant said <BR> <BR>&#62;? What research is that, exactly? <BR> <BR>Sorry,
    I&#39;m not the one widely quoting research here. <BR> <BR>Nor do I have the time.
    As I said, the only reason why I&#39;m bothering with this at all is to dispel
    disinformation. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;The act of drawing typefaces  <BR>&#62;teaches
    nothing about how they are read as text.  <BR> <BR>&#62;Sales are only slightly
    related to readability. <BR> <BR> <BR>Is that so? <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Readers
    can and do report general problems,  <BR>&#62;like &#34;I get tired quickly when
    reading this <BR>&#62;magazine.&#34; They can&#39;t and don&#39;t say things  <BR>&#62;like
    &#34;The font&#39;s x-height is so large that  <BR>&#62;it&#39;s inhibiting good
    bouma formation.&#34; <BR> <BR>And of course, one would never expect them to.
    <BR> <BR>But at that point, that&#39;s where more research is then needed, such
    as focus groups that would be probably more intrusive than usual. <BR> <BR>And
    even so, you might never get guidance that&#39;s adequate. <BR> <BR>As mentioned
    earlier, I believe &#40;from seeing the phenomenon for thirty years&#41; that
    research and meetings upfront, rather than in hindsight, are where more effective
    guidance will spring. <BR> <BR>It avoids art for art&#39;s sake, which can be
    counterproductive in the commercial world. And it will save a lot of expense in
    the long run if shooting-from-the-hit decisions without research prove to be incorrect.
    <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; Wasn&#39;t me.  <BR> <BR>&#62;The rest was
    James. Do you not really  <BR>&#62;read his stuff either? <BR> <BR>What in the
    world are you referring to?  <BR> <BR>I not only read your &#39;stuff&#39;, I
    try probably more than necessary, to avoid using it out of context. <BR> <BR>
    <BR> <BR>&#62;When you&#39;re finished reading all the  <BR>&#62;references in
    there, I&#39;ll give you  <BR>&#62;another batch... and then another. <BR> <BR>&#62;By
    the time you catch up to me,  <BR>&#62;your business will be broke. <BR> <BR>
    <BR>Two things: <BR> <BR>Why in the world do you believe that I need to &#39;catch
    up&#39; to you? <BR> <BR>and <BR> <BR>Why in the world would you say a hateful
    thing like &#39;By the time you catch up to me, your business will be broke.&#39;?
    <BR> <BR>Oh, and thanks for the passing reference to the Ovink material. <BR>
    <BR>Excellent for its time. I especially enjoy the tables on pp. 144-153.  <BR>
    <BR>But it&#39;s from 1938. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Please don&#39;t try designing
    a book face. <BR> <BR>Well, if I were trying to be nasty, I might suggest the
    same thing of you, sir. <BR> <BR>Sorry, I&#39;ve designed plenty of faces perfectly
    appropriate for long text such as books. <BR> <BR>And faces that many, many publication
    designers around the world &#40;and who, after all, are really the ones dangling
    above the flame&#41; have used successfully, and repeatedly, for very large books.
    <BR> <BR>Too bad they apparently don&#39;t fit your narrow view of what constitutes
    a successful face usable in a so-called book environment. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;...you&#39;d
    get it. <BR> <BR>Hrant, believe me, I get your argument, already. <BR> <BR> <BR>
    <BR>&#62;Let others be the judge.  <BR>&#62;And I&#39;m not talking about people  <BR>&#62;who
    you already know share your  <BR>&#62;aesthetic &#40;and anti-technical&#41; <BR>&#62;sensibilities.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Anti-technical?  <BR> <BR>Frankly, I find that knowing when to close
    the books and actually do some real work is important. <BR> <BR>You should try
    it. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 02:51:25'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'For the benefit of the group,  <BR>Mr Ovink was, in Hrant&#39;s quoted...
    <BR> <BR>&#62;13. &#34;The factor of easy writing, which influenced the forms
    of the alphabet at the time of the scribes, can have no actual significance any
    more; we have to reckon with the technical requirements of typography nowadays.&#34;
    From G. W. Ovink, Legibility, Atmosphere-Value and Forms of Printing Types, p.
    213. <BR> <BR> <BR>...actually talking about &#40;or perhaps around&#41; the typeface
    &#39;Peignot&#39; &#40;1937, A. M. Cassandre, designer&#41;, and released through
    the foundry Deberny et Peignot. <BR> <BR>As many might recall from writings about
    it, the foundry Deberny which released it hailed its biform goodness as the second
    coming of the alphabet. <BR> <BR>Interestingly, Archie Provan and Alexander Lawson
    write of Peignot in their 1983 &#39;100 Type Histories, Volume II&#39;, that Peignot
    &#34;actually returned to some of the 6th century uncials&#34;. <BR> <BR>And that
    &#34;The type was so successful that two other weights were added latter [sic].&#34;
    <BR> <BR> <BR>A sidebar word of warning: On page 204, Ovink describes the typeface
    &#39;Bell&#39; as &#34;fresh, racy and tender; ...&#34;. <BR> <BR>No, I&#39;m
    not making it up. <BR> <BR> <BR>Pretty obviously from his point of view of the
    type industry, and since Peignot was released probably 1/4 to midway through his
    writing his book, Mr Ovink was likely just as dazzled as the rest of the world
    at the time, by Cassandre&#39;s and Deberny&#39;s masterworks. <BR> <BR>&#40;Say
    what you will about Peignot. Without it, there would be no &#39;Planet of the
    Apes&#39; types.&#41; <BR> <BR>;-&#41; <BR> <BR>Mr Ovink was noticably roiled
    that Deberny was hailing it that way, without research to back up that it was
    the secong coming, saying even that Deberny was &#34;pretending&#34; that Peignot
    was indeed the only typeface ever to be used again. That all others should be
    vaporized &#40;my words, to compress it&#41;. <BR> <BR> <BR>And so we see that
    even then, there are those around who would squash type design creativity and
    its promotion. <BR> <BR>Now, where would we be today without the landmark promotion
    of typefaces that Deberny et Peignot heralded? The answer is: much less well off,
    creatively. <BR> <BR>Is Peignot a &#39;text face&#39;?  <BR> <BR>No, of course
    not. Can it be used for text effectively? Long text? Sure, depending upon how
    the designer designs with it. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>Interestingly, reading on to
    page 214, Mr Ovink continues: <BR> <BR>&#34;The French are masters in black and
    white. Perhaps owing to financial reasons, compelling to get maximum profit out
    of a few types, they reached a high level in the art of &#34;mise-en-page&#34;.
    <BR> <BR>&#40;He then spends a paragraph reminding everyone that the pinnacle
    of printing perfection was only to be found in France.&#41; <BR> <BR>And that
    the French, with so few types to choose from within their country, naturally turned
    to color and paper variety to pick up the slack of creative presentation. <BR>
    <BR>Ah, the French. And how Mr Ovink understood them. <BR> <BR>At least by the
    middle of p. 214, Ovink finally, no doubt grudgingly admits that Charles Peignot,
    and the firm Deberny &amp; Peignot, did do stellar work on the order &#40;in his
    words&#41; of Klingspor, Bauer and U.K. Monotype.... <BR> <BR>&#62;17. &#34;The
    abilities and the condition of  <BR>&#62;the reader play an important part;  <BR>&#62;these
    differences in reading-skill are  <BR>&#62;not to be neglected.&#34; Ovink, p.
    113. <BR> <BR>Well, duh. <BR> <BR>More significantly, on p. 113, he says, <BR>
    <BR>&#34;The rapid reader needs a small, thin, close and narrow type&#34; [giving
    the examples Baskerville and Fraktur &#40;!&#41;]&#34;, <BR> <BR>the slow reader
    needs a large, thick, wide type&#34; [examples cited: Schoolbook Old Style, Bookman,
    Ionic]. <BR> <BR> <BR>Oh, how to resolve it? How ever will we resolve it? <BR>
    <BR> <BR> <BR>On p. 112, he quotes that another research team he respected, Tinker
    and Paterson, had tested these faces: <BR>Scotch Roman <BR>Garamont     &#40;yes,
    Garamont&#41; <BR>Antique <BR>Bodoni <BR>Old Style <BR>Caslon Old Style <BR>Kabel
    Lite <BR>Cheltenham <BR>American Typewriter &#40;not ITC&#39;s; an older one&#41;
    <BR>Cloister Black <BR> <BR>Ovink states there that of all those faces, only the
    last two produced significant differences [in results]. <BR> <BR>&#40;!&#41; <BR>
    <BR>Anyway, I&#39;d love to see the results of similar tests with more modern
    faces and &#40;probably more importantly&#41; more modern printing techniques
    brought to bear.  <BR> <BR>Can you even imagine what their proof cards used to
    test with must have looked like? Sure, probably crisp for the day, but we would
    pretty obviously do much better today. Well, as long as it&#39;s printed in France,
    I suppose. <BR> <BR>Hrant, maybe Matthew Lesko can direct you to a grant to study
    it. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 03:56:25'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Sorry, in an earlier post this evening, I misspelled &#39;shooting-from-the-hit&#39;.
    <BR> <BR>It was supposed to read &#39;shooting-from-the-hip&#39;, of course. <BR>
    <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-03 04:01:51'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Anybody have a spare Interrobang they&#39;re not using? <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-03 04:27:13'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Woah, I know some people here who need to have a time out. <BR> <BR> <BR>Who
    would&#39;ve thought you could have huge arguments over fonts?
  created: '2003-08-03 04:33:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Why in the world do you believe that I need to &#39;catch up&#39; to
    you? <BR> <BR>Because you don&#39;t understand readability even remotely - it&#39;s
    clear from your explanation of where you learned about it - virtually nowhere.
    But don&#39;t worry too much, you&#39;re not alone. On the other hand, after 20-30
    years of focusing on making money, one would hope for a little bit more intellectual
    curiosity. But reading all you have to write here, it&#39;s pretty safe to assume
    that it&#39;s simply too late for you. <BR> <BR>&#62; real work <BR> <BR>You mean
    stuff none of your peers ever refer to? <BR> <BR>Peignot: I like it for the same
    reasons its creator liked it - it was an attempt at alphabet reform &#40;even
    though it was a somewhat misguided one&#41;. That&#39;s not why the people who
    made it a financial success liked it - and that&#39;s one reason Cassandre committed
    suicide. <BR> <BR>And don&#39;t go dissin&#39; Ovink on me - has was a giant.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Peignot ... Long text? Sure <BR> <BR>You&#39;re hallucinating.
    <BR>Make sure to stop anybody who might ask you set a book for them. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Fraktur <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html" target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html</a>
    <BR>Read and learn, my friend. What they&#39;ve taught you -and you&#39;ve taught
    yourself- is mostly convenient illusion. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>The argument is
    much more than over fonts, it&#39;s about how to mark cultural progress, as opposed
    to milking nostalgia and complacency for money. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 04:36:13'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: What!? <BR> <BR>It&#39;s just one of those exclamation point/question mark
    combination thingys.... <BR> <BR>;-&#41; <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-03 04:36:34'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: '&#34;The argument is much more than over fonts, it&#39;s about how to mark
    cultural progress, as opposed to milking nostalgia and complacency for money.
    &#34; <BR> <BR>I know I over simplified, but most of what I meant came through.
    <BR> <BR>You two are supposed to be professionals yet I can&#39;t get this image
    out of my head of Kirk and Spock fighting with those weighted axe thingies with
    the ominous &#34;da-dada-da-da-da&#34; music playing in the background.'
  created: '2003-08-03 04:40:12'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'To my  <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; Why in the world do you believe that  <BR>&#62;&#62;I
    need to &#39;catch up&#39; to you?  <BR> <BR> <BR>Hrant wrote <BR> <BR>&#62;Because
    you don&#39;t understand readability  <BR>&#62;even remotely - it&#39;s clear
    from your  <BR>&#62;explanation of where you learned about it - <BR>&#62;virtually
    nowhere. But don&#39;t worry too much, <BR>&#62;you&#39;re not alone. On the other
    hand, <BR>&#62;after 20-30 years of focusing on making money,  <BR>&#62;one would
    hope for a little bit more  <BR>&#62;intellectual curiosity. But reading all you  <BR>&#62;have
    to write here, it&#39;s pretty safe to  <BR>&#62;assume that it&#39;s simply too
    late for you. <BR> <BR> <BR>Thanks so much for that. Sorry, but you&#39;re quite
    off base. <BR> <BR>How in the world could you possibly draw such a conclusion
    without knowing anything about what human interface and type design ergonomics
    research I&#39;ve studied? <BR> <BR>Too late for what? As with all responsible
    designers &#40;type designers or not&#41;, one&#39;s whole career is a living
    laboratory. <BR> <BR>But I didn&#39;t just stop there, and let projects and client
    politics and profitability lead me around by the nose.  <BR> <BR>My research started
    before I ever entered the field. And has continued - er - continually, throughout.
    <BR> <BR>And why do you keep repeating that you believe the most important thing
    to me about typography is making money?  <BR> <BR>Would you please stop that?
    <BR> <BR>If it was the most important thing, why then do you think that I would
    have started Treacyfaces with the concept of solely learning from the past&#39;s
    mistakes, and then seeking to do better? <BR> <BR>If I were most concerned with
    money, at the time we incorporated &#40;1984&#41;, I could easily have taken an
    approach like &#40;for example&#41; The Font Company, knocking off everyone in
    sight in one way or another.  <BR> <BR>Ultimately so top-heavy with me-too faces
    that they had to close, selling off their so-called inventory in a fire sale.
    But before that fire sale, wow, wall to wall investor cash. <BR> <BR>Well, look
    where such an approach leads. They&#39;re long gone. <BR> <BR>&#40;I&#39;ve never
    even used outside investors....&#41; <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve always been quite happy
    eschewing financial gain to pursue furthering the craft first. <BR> <BR>First
    and foremost, I love type. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;And don&#39;t go dissin&#39;
    Ovink on me -  <BR>&#62;has was a giant. <BR> <BR> <BR>Why do you assume that
    I&#39;m &#40;ahem&#41; dissin&#39; Ovink? Because I both quote him verbatim, and
    then can draw my own conclusions from the presentations? <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t
    help it if, at that point in his career, he was down on Cassandre, Peignot...and...the
    French! <BR> <BR>;-&#41; <BR> <BR>But seriously: I didn&#39;t say that he didn&#39;t
    do a lot of work to assemble his research. I respect him for the very laborious
    work, and certainly, for his very labored presentations. <BR> <BR>But really.
    It was from 1938. <BR> <BR> <BR>Sorry, I don&#39;t talk like a statistician. Never
    have, never will. <BR> <BR>And you&#39;ll never, ever, ever see me citing research
    notes referencing cuddly beagles. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not going to fill my writing
    &#40;as least as far as a setting like this is concerned&#41; with needless typographic
    pseudo-laboratory psychobabble. <BR> <BR>But that doesn&#39;t mean, as a responsible
    designer, that I don&#39;t care about factual studies that are in fact meaningful
    to consider regarding a project. <BR> <BR>I simply think you&#39;re looking at
    it from too much a bean counter&#39;s view. And to get back to the beginning,
    I think that your pseudo-citing innuendo can be quite dangerous to graduates entering
    the field. <BR> <BR>And that is of course why this will most likely not end in
    agreeing to agree. <BR> <BR>I respect you for respecting the research and so taking
    it to heart. <BR> <BR>I choose instead to read the research, and then simply take
    the research with a grain of salt.  <BR> <BR>Especially when it comes to designing
    something new. Especially when much of the research done has been inconclusive.
    Especially when so much of typography has moved on since the research. &#40;As
    much as I respect it.&#41; <BR> <BR>And especially as the research regards display
    type &#40;of its day&#41;. Er, like Peignot! <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; Peignot
    ... Long text? Sure  <BR> <BR>&#62;You&#39;re hallucinating.  <BR>&#62;Make sure
    to stop anybody who might ask  <BR>&#62;you set a book for them. <BR> <BR> <BR>I
    think you really need to open your mind a little. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;The
    argument is much more than over fonts,  <BR>&#62;it&#39;s about how to mark cultural
    progress,  <BR>&#62;as opposed to milking nostalgia and  <BR>&#62;complacency
    for money. <BR> <BR> <BR>Well, if you say so. <BR> <BR>It seems to me that from
    the body of research done, and how leading foundries and their most talented creative
    directors and artists, punchcutters, phototypesetting filmmakers, digitizers,
    etc., have learned from it over the 20th century, that quite a lot of &#39;cultural
    progress&#39; has indeed been made in type design and manufacturing. <BR> <BR>And,
    as has been noted in type and design industry writings many times during the last
    century, type design developments have tended to well echo human cultural change.
    <BR> <BR>Who&#39;s milking complacency here? <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 06:06:35'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Chris Anemone wrote <BR> <BR>&#62;You two are supposed to be professionals  <BR>&#62;yet
    I can&#39;t get this image out of my head  <BR>&#62;of Kirk and Spock fighting
    with those  <BR>&#62;weighted axe thingies with the ominous  <BR>&#62;&#34;da-dada-da-da-da&#34;
    music playing in the <BR>&#62;background. <BR> <BR>Nice imagery.  <BR> <BR>Brings
    up the old standby, <BR> <BR>Spock: &#34;I can&#39;t believe my ears, Captain.&#34;
    <BR>Kirk: &#34;I can&#39;t believe your ears either, Spock.&#34; <BR> <BR>:-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-03 06:12:09'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'If Joe puts as much effort into his fonts as he <BR>puts into this thread,
    they must be killer. I&#39;ll <BR>have to go check them out. <BR>: &#41;'
  created: '2003-08-03 06:15:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Back on topic, kinda... <BR><a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/3117505.stm"
    target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/3117505.stm</a> <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-08-04 22:09:26'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Great graphic, that skull and crossbones. <BR>They sure do a great job with
    their graphics. <BR> <BR>&#40;From the article, '
  created: '2003-08-05 02:16:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; They sure do a great job with their graphics. <BR> <BR>Nah, their graphics
    pale in comparison to their reportage, which comparatively makes virtually all
    US media channels look like the &#34;Nuke the Japs!&#34; cowboys that they are.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; What will happen to typography when .... <BR> <BR>What are you
    talking about? That already happened to type years ago! <BR>Not surprising considering
    font files are much tinier than song files. <BR>Next in line are movies. <BR>
    <BR>And what&#39;s happened to creativity? Well, like you said, and I agree, this
    is indeed the Golden Era of type design! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 04:57:36'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: '&#62;&#34;...virtually all US media channels  <BR>&#62;look like the &#34;Nuke
    the Japs!&#34; cowboys  <BR>&#62;that they are.&#34; <BR> <BR> <BR>Now, that I
    agree with. A lot of it is unwatchable. <BR> <BR> <BR>I&#39;d said, just above,
    addressing the future, not the past or present: &#34;What will become of creativity?&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 13:09:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '&#34;For the benefit of the group,&#34; <BR> <BR>I think the group has long
    left you two alone in here ;o&#41;'
  created: '2003-08-05 15:06:43'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Ooooh, that&#39;s ruthless, Darrel! =D
  created: '2003-08-05 15:42:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Kinda related to our hourly wage mini-discussion in this thread: <BR><a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/3124569.stm"
    target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/3124569.stm</a> <BR><a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/3083817.stm"
    target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/3083817.stm</a> <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 18:05:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Somebody wrote: <BR> <BR>&#34;My point was simply that Adobe has probably
    long ago paid for the fonts it is including in the student pack.&#34; <BR> <BR>This
    is simply not true. Many of these are relatively recent designs. What &#42;is&#42;
    true is that few or none of them invoke per-unit royalty payments. This was necessary
    to get the price down to the level that the educational market would buy it. <BR>
    <BR>Nick Shinn made some comments about the &#34;ruthless&#34; nature of the pricing
    of the Type Classics for Learning package at $99/user. I found those comments
    actually bordering on offensive, but it&#39;s probably worth explaining why it
    exists. <BR> <BR>The pricing of Type Classics for Learning has little to do with
    ruthlessness or even direct competition, and a lot to do with the realities of
    the market: <BR> <BR>- schools aren&#39;t willing to pay much for fonts <BR>-
    schools and their students will use &#40;and pirate&#41; fonts if they don&#39;t
    pay for them <BR>- ergo, we are probably better off licensing some fonts cheaply
    to the schools. We get some money, which is better than none, and they get a legal
    license, and we promote legitimate licensing over piracy. <BR> <BR>Personally,
    Nick, I think it would be perfectly reasonable for you to license your whole set
    of fonts for $25/user to the education market. It&#39;s not like Adobe is magically
    shutting you out or something. Sure, we&#39;ve got a bigger set of better-known
    fonts, but that&#39;s sort of the permanent reality for small, newer, independent
    foundries trying to compete, and not particular to the education market or our
    pricing of Type Classics. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2003-08-16 02:03:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I found those comments actually bordering on offensive <BR> <BR>OK,
    but what do your <i>shareholders</i> think? Chances are they don&#39;t. Think,
    that is. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-16 02:08:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>Usually you combine your gratuitous insults with some content,
    but I don&#39;t see any content in that one. Although I try to avoid reading your
    posts, occasionally one slips in. This just reminds me of why I try to avoid reading
    them. <BR> <BR>I will not reply to any further post of yours on Typophile, and
    nobody else should expect me to respond to them either, regardless of what you
    write. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-08-16 02:18:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I guess the only fruitful question is: Why just Typophile? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-16 02:27:24'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: ':sigh: Thanks again, Hrant. I feel like we need to keep a list of all the
    people who get fed up with the insults and decide to ignore you. <BR> <BR>Thomas,
    I hope you&#39;ll continue to participate- The rest of us have appreciated your
    contributions to this thread and others.'
  created: '2003-08-16 10:28:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I feel like we need to keep a list <BR> <BR>Well, I tried to do that
    already, in my Fruitful Avoidance thing. But people are either too &#34;polite&#34;
    or cowardly for their own good. If it&#39;s the former, I can&#39;t do much, but
    if it&#39;s the latter, please believe Joe: I don&#39;t hold grudges. John Hudson
    for example has gone years abusing me and never saying a single nice thing, but
    that doesn&#39;t prevent me from complimenting him when due. How can this be?
    Spine. <BR> <BR>Jared, just be happy <i>I&#39;m</i> not so sensitive. I&#39;ve
    been taking most of the insults lately &#40;the fact that they&#39;re sugar-coated
    only serves to make the insulter look worse, in my book&#41;, but I keep devoting
    my time to Typophile. Put into context why different people frequent this place;
    if you haven&#39;t noticed already, to me this isn&#39;t a social club - I&#39;m
    not here to make friends - even though I&#39;ve made many through online discussion
    &#40;as well as subsequent physical encounter&#41;, and in fact I have to suspect
    that&#39;s <i>due</i> to my character. Realize that most of the people who dislike
    me don&#39;t object too much to my <i>typographic</i> unorthodoxy, they instead
    fume about my persistent attacks on the rotten core of their society, yes, the
    one that created discussion groups, ironically! This is what leads them to tune
    me out - they fail to separate the politics from the type, hence fail to benefit
    from the latter. But this &#34;politics&#34; is probably the very reason that
    so many of our members from outside this imperialistic elite like me. Look carefully
    at the people who object to me vocally - the demographic is obvious &#40;with
    maybe a religious factor added too&#41;, and has only been reinforced here. <BR>
    <BR>See the divide, and my role as a mere catalyst. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-16 17:11:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;ruthless <BR> <BR>Thomas, please don&#39;t be offended. This is not
    personal. Large companies are not people, they are not even run by people, but
    by departments. Being ruthless is &#34;good business&#34;, par for the course
    for marketing departments run by specialists.  <BR> <BR>Ruthless behavior is considered
    acceptable in large corporations, but not in individuals. <BR> <BR>At least Adobe
    doesn&#39;t go after other foundries the way it goes after Quark with its long-running
    &#34;Switch&#34; campaign. <BR> <BR>As for your argument &#40;is this a company
    position?&#41; that students and instructors are going to pirate the fonts anyway,
    so you might as well make a few bucks, now that&#39;s terribly cynical and irresponsible.
    It really pushes the self-fulfilling downward spiral, practically endorsing that
    kind of behavior. A company in Adobe&#39;s dominant position should take the high
    road, and take its lumps, rather than dragging everyone down. <BR> <BR>The theory
    that a cheap license is better than no licence may make some sense when applied
    to institutional piracy, as it may obviate the need for rogue instructors to use
    pirate fonts. But it will have no bearing on instructor or student piracy -- ie
    when they copy fonts from the institution onto their own computers. In fact it
    would just make more fonts available for them to steal &#40;providing they kow
    how&#41;. <BR> <BR>Besides, I do not believe that the majority of institutions
    engage in font piracy. Sure, there are a few wayward instructors, but they are
    in fact jeopardizing their position and reputation. <BR> <BR>With its near-monopoly
    on graphic design software, Adobe is in a position to demand licence audits of
    educational establishments for applications and fonts. Or if not demand, than
    offer certification -- what institution would not want to be certified &#34;piracy-free&#34;
    by Adobe? <BR> <BR>It&#39;s been my experience in dealing with the IT people at
    a number of local art and design schools that they take abuse of software licensing
    very seriously, and are constantly finding new ways to discourage it.   <BR> <BR>&#40;An
    example: in the type design course I teach, I found that students are not able
    to open up the fonts on the server to inspect their construction -- as I had suggested
    -- because those fonts had been specially protected from tampering and copying.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>We have to preserve the communal perception/value that piracy is an anomaly,
    moral weakness, and punishable transgression, rather than something everybody
    does so it&#39;s OK. In the education system, there has to be the higher standard
    that you CAN do the right thing, uncorrupted by the competitive pressure of the
    bottom line.'
  created: '2003-08-16 17:34:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;Personally, Nick, I think it would be perfectly reasonable for you to
    license your whole set of fonts for $25/user to the education market. <BR> <BR>Thanks
    for the suggestion, Thomas. That&#39;s not a position I would have considered
    a couple of years ago. But I&#39;m coming around to it.  <BR> <BR>Underware&#39;s
    &#34;free till you use it on a real job&#34; marketing of Daisy &#40;launched
    in 2001&#41; was quite shocking.  <BR> <BR>Many foundries supply free fonts to
    certain publication designers &#40;a perq of being successful&#41;, on the understanding
    that if their &#40;re&#41;designs are accepted, their client will licence the
    fonts. <BR> <BR>&#40;Note: are these trade secrets more suitable for the Uppercase
    area?&#41; <BR> <BR>Anyway, what do all you small foundry people out there think
    I should do? Fight Adobe&#39;s practice of dumping fonts at educational institutions,
    or follow suit?'
  created: '2003-08-16 17:52:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I think you should make as much money as your conscience allows. The tricky
    part I guess is gauging one&#39;s conscience... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-16 18:07:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Totally your call on your pricing choices, Nick. Personally, I&#39;d do it,
    if it were me. <BR> <BR>Another way of looking at it--and one that came up in
    our discussion of it--is that the educational institutions need fonts, and simply
    can&#39;t afford and won&#39;t pay anything even vaguely resembling our regular
    prices. We can leave them stuck with whatever is bundled with their applications,
    or we can choose to offer them something they can afford. In the latter, we make
    a few bucks, but more importantly we get the students used to the idea of working
    with higher quality fonts and having a broader typographic palette. We can hope
    that as they go on to careers as design professionals they will actually buy more
    fonts, or get their design firms to buy them. <BR> <BR>The counter-argument that
    I am guessing is implicit in your comments about ruthless competition is that
    you think that this kind of pricing drives down the valuation of fonts by the
    students. This is of course a risk, but they are used to getting 70-80% discounts
    on other software, so I don&#39;t have much worry that they&#39;ll consider this
    the &#34;regular price.&#34; <BR> <BR>Underware did the same &#34;free until you
    use it for real work&#34; thing for Sauna, as well. I thought it was a pretty
    cool and daring move. <BR> <BR>Although many decisions in large corporations are
    made for large corporate reasons, many of the decisions made by the type department
    at Adobe are in fact made at our level. This decision was mostly made by Harold
    Grey, with input from a bunch of other folks. Personally, I supported it, because
    I thought that having an inexpensive educational font collection was a good thing.
    I&#39;m not sure I would have priced it quite so low, but the $99 price point
    was probably the right call. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not saying that I agree with every
    move Adobe has made. There have even been ideas that have come up, which, if realized,
    would cause my resignation. But it hasn&#39;t gotten that far. Remarkably, Adobe
    has been pretty responsive to employees saying, &#34;I can see how that would
    make business sense, but I believe it would be unethical and violate our company&#39;s
    core values.&#34; <BR> <BR>I should clarify that many of these things are around
    people simply not understanding the intellectual property issues around type.
    It&#39;s a matter of ignorance vs. education rather than anyone knowingly suggesting
    unethical actions. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-08-16 21:02:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think Adobe is in fact better-than-average when it comes to ethics. And
    it&#39;s great to hear that your allegiance to Adobe is dependent on specific
    decisions that might be unethical. &#40;It would be interesting to find out what
    those problematic issues were.&#41; <BR> <BR>The two things that have really bugged
    me in recent memory &#40;the latter more than the former&#41; are: <BR>1&#41;
    The acquision of fascetious design patents, like on Garamond. <BR>2&#41; The axing
    of MM. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-16 21:36:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-07-21 02:07:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-07-21 02:07:51'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-07-21 02:08:37'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-07-21 02:09:22'
date: '2003-08-01 15:52:50'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through August 16, 2003

---
