---
author:
  name: Catharsis
  picture: 124507
body: "I've recently developed the urge to doodle a monolinear sans-serif rendition
  of Garamond that tries to stay as faithful to the character of the serif source
  as possible. Now, that seems like a pretty obvious thing to do, and I expected to
  find a number of fonts online that had pursued exactly that design concept. However,
  with my very limited overview of the font world, I didn't find any. I suppose Gill
  Sans Light comes close to that to first order, but upon closer inspection it has
  a lot of quirks.\r\n\r\nAre there any obvious candidates for that kind of font that
  I'm not aware of, or is it a concept worth pursuing with a new font project?\r\n\r\nFor
  a test drive, I made a few letters in stroked path mode in FontForge. I quite like
  the looks of it. I've added a shot of EB Garamond below it for direct comparison:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thalamond_6432.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/garamond_5204.png]\r\n\r\nWhat
  do you think? Is it worth pursuing?\r\n\r\nIf so, I suppose it's unhealthy to stick
  with the stroked-path mode, and I should switch over to outline mode as soon as
  possible. However, I'm having trouble with the \"Expand Path\" functionality of
  FontForge; it invariably causes the application to crash. That would considerably
  increase the amount of work it would cost me to achieve a nice consistent stroke
  strength. Do you know of any easy solutions to that problem?\r\n\r\nCheers"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<blockquote>Now, that seems like a pretty obvious thing to do, and I expected
    to find a number of fonts online that had pursued exactly that design concept.
    However, with my very limited overview of the font world, I didn't find any.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere
    are at least three: <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/claude-sans/?refby=typographica\">Claude
    Sans</a>, <a href=\"http://commercialtype.com/typefaces/marian\">Marian 1554</a>,
    and <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/canadatype/aragon-sans/?refby=typographica\">Aragon
    Sans</a>. That doesn\u2019t mean there\_isn\u2019t room for other interpretations,
    of course. You would also want to steer clear of <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ef/today-sans/?refby=typographica\">Today
    Sans</a> and <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/cronos/?refby=typographica\">Cronos</a>,
    but if you haven\u2019t seen those maybe it\u2019s best not to look at all so
    you won\u2019t be in danger of being subconsciously influenced. I think your concept
    of following the structure of Garamond is a good one. Just don\u2019t trace the
    model too strictly \u2014 use your own ideas to make it work as a sans."
  created: '2012-11-03 23:41:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The category of 'humanist' sans generally go in this direction by basing
    their lower case on the oval, rather than the circle. One of the earlier ones,
    inspired by Jenson rather than Garamond, is Legacy sans. \r\n\r\nI think that
    one can't capture the whole look of Garamond in a sans. It's impossible first
    because chopping off serifs doesn't work\u2014you have to change relative widths
    of characters to get a good rhythm. But the other thing is that most sans are
    more monoline, and old style serifs have a lot of thick-thin contrast. Particularly
    with old style, this means that the curves in the interior are different from
    the exterior.  Here you have followed mainly exterior curves, though not exactly.
    And that means that the whole has a different feel. For example, the o and d are
    quite different in Garamond and your sans. \r\n\r\nNone of this is to say you
    can't come up with something great. It's just that you will have to decide what
    you want to capture of Garamond, and what you are willing to give up. And then
    you as you progress you will find that to have integrity and coherence in your
    design, it will start dictating its own rules, independently from Garamond. \r\n\r\nI
    think you already have a challenge along the line of coherence in that your o
    is rather geometric, and the circular part of the d is not. Also your a has inevitably
    changed the relationship of the spaces within the bottom and top parts of the
    letter, and now looks a bit awkward. "
  created: '2012-11-04 00:06:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Worry about how it would be useful more than how to derive it.\r\n\r\nFWIW
    the first such font was Syntax.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-04 00:23:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: See also http://typophile.com/node/77210
  created: '2012-11-04 03:42:37'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: 'Also, any suggestions on how to convert a path into an outline in FontForge,
    without crashing the application? '
  created: '2012-11-04 12:56:49'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Thanks for the replies, everyone. I don't think I'll make this my main project
    at the moment, but I'll keep it around in case more inspiration (or boredom) strikes.\r\n\r\n@
    Stephen: I had a look anyway, and I'm glad I did.  ;o)  Pretty much all of those
    fonts seem to take a notably different route. They generally have a certain \"calligraphic\"
    feel to me due to their modulated strokes (except for Marian, which is really
    more of a slab serif than a sans). Also, from what I can tell they make a lot
    of concessions to the common wisdom of sans design \u2014 large x-heights, for
    example. My impression is that a simple, truly monolinear (or at least optically
    so) sans that sticks to the proportions of the original Garamond is still an unfilled
    niche, though whether anyone has a use for that is another question entirely...\r\n\r\n@
    William: Very good points, thanks. I'm aware that I can't fully reproduce Garamond
    in this medium, but I'd at least like to provoke a sense of recognition \u2014
    \"hey, that's Garamond!\" \u2014 at first sight. As for the overall curve philosophy;
    true, I'd have to make a decision about that soon. My gut feeling is to go for
    a slightly diagonalized |o| rather than a circularized |d|. It's true that I've
    mostly followed outer curves so far; that came from the fact that I wanted the
    letters to retain their original \"girth\". The Garamond |G| looks quite wide,
    and tracing its spine resulted in a narrower look (I tried it). I'm not quite
    sure what you mean about the |a|; its bowl is also smaller than the space above
    it in the original... and I rather like its current shape.\r\n\r\n@ Hrant: The
    main use I envision would be for display in large sizes, or maybe for short passages
    at medium sizes. I think my monolinear and conservative approach would break down
    at heavy weights (perhaps even at Regular), so I might only produce Light and
    Hairline versions. Whether or not there's a market for that, I have no idea. Think
    there is?\r\n\r\n@ Eliason: Thanks for the link. I especially like the Nota font
    mentioned in that thread. I'll put in on my list of fonts to buy once I start
    to make money with my own (still waiting on MyFonts to get back to me!), but its
    tittles feel a bit misaligned to me, so it's probably not going to end up on the
    top."
  created: '2012-11-04 13:15:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Try installing the FontLab plug in.  ;-)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Whether or not
    there's a market for that, I have no idea. Think there is?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
    don't have to do it just for the market - you could do it for culture too. What
    I'm personally not a fan of is doing it for kicks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-04 14:23:38'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I figured out the problem with FontForge: I wasn't using the latest version...
    that's what you get when you offer Mac users the choice between a pre-compiled
    old version and a newer version that you have to compile yourself.  ;o)\r\n\r\nI've
    finished the lowercase letters now, just to give myself an overview of where this
    would be going. In all cases, I've tweaked the curves of the sans such as to give
    me as close an optical match to EB Garamond as I could get, rather than just tracing
    the inner, outer, or median curves. \r\n\r\nI quite like the results for some
    letters (especially |t f a e g|), while others are downright ugly (e.g., |x|).
    The overall appearance is not very cohesive, though.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/q_6394.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/b_3529.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f_5493.png]"
  created: '2012-11-07 19:51:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I'd say the results are interesting enough to pursue.
  created: '2012-11-16 09:41:49'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, I finished a first version (including language support and ligatures)
    in three weights. I'd have to adjust the spacing of some accent marks in the Bold
    face if this were getting serious (it's just stroke expansion for now), but for
    the standard characters it works. No kerning yet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cg_4105.png]\r\n\r\nYousa
    like?"
  created: '2012-11-22 20:19:33'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, there was quite a bit of cleaning up to do. FontForge had a maddening
    propensity to screwing up one or two random curves in the character set when I
    tried to add extrema to the expanded paths. For now, I've just generated the fonts
    without 100% accurate extrema (the points as they come out of the expanding routine
    seem close enough) and without rounding to integer values (since that makes the
    lighter weights all wobbly).  They seem to work well in PowerPoint.\r\n\r\nI've
    settled on five weights so far: Hairline (5), Light (10), Regular (20), Medium
    (30), Bold (40). The numbers refer to stroke thickness, where 1000 is the font's
    total height.\r\n\r\nI'm thinking of calling the font <strong>Eau de Garamond</strong>,
    since it is the spirit of Garamond distilled down to its pure, unembellished,
    \xE6thereal essence. What do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eau_4148.png]"
  created: '2012-11-23 20:37:50'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I don't think the rounded ends of the strokes work for this.  Shear them off
    into straight lines.  The e still looks a bit akward.  I do see potential here
    though.
  created: '2012-11-24 04:07:47'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I see what you mean. It's going to take a lot of manual work, though. I can
    use the square cap / miter bend expansion method as a starting point, but then
    I'll have to clean up countless intersections and clip extreme points. Ah well,
    I guess it's still much less work that one would normally have for a non-monolinear
    font. Maybe I should try to clean up the Bold and Hairline weights first and see
    whether the others will interpolate...?\r\n\r\nI've made the eye of the |e| a
    bit larger and smoothed the curves a bit; is it less awkward now? I'm afraid a
    little awkwardness will have to remain if I'm to stay true to the original. I
    bet |e| wasn't Claude's favorite letter.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e_5376.png]"
  created: '2012-11-24 14:40:23'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "\"I've made the eye of the |e| a bit larger and smoothed the curves a bit;
    is it less awkward now? I'm afraid a little awkwardness will have to remain if
    I'm to stay true to the original. I bet |e| wasn't Claude's favorite letter.\"\r\n\r\nYes
    it looks better, but it's hard to tell as it is a way bigger pic.  Can you render
    out a pic of it at the size it is in your previous pic where you showed all 5
    weights?\r\n\r\nTo me the akwardness isn't in the counter per se, but in the curve
    in general at about the 1 o'clock position.  It just looks a bit sharp, a bit
    cramped there."
  created: '2012-11-24 18:55:33'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Meanwhile, I have a Thin version of the same quality as that Regular. I might
    not go any lighter than this, unlike my original plan.\r\n\r\nftp://ftp.mpia.de/pub/thalmann/eau/inventory_light.pdf\r\n\r\nI'm
    fine with redoing some characters in all weights if there should be some problems
    left in there. I just felt like having a second full-fledged weight to toy around
    with for now.\r\n\r\nI really like how that |@| turned out. I might have to make
    an italic for this font.  :)"
  created: '2012-11-26 18:31:22'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I've renamed the previous \"Bold\" weight at 40 units to \"Regular\", which
    is closer to the truth, and used that as my reference. I have the impression that
    it shows flaws in the curves most clearly.\r\n\r\nHow does it look?\r\n\r\nftp://ftp.mpia.de/pub/thalmann/eau/inventory.pdf"
  created: '2012-11-26 23:54:59'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I seem to have reached a stable state with the letter shapes. Four weights
    are complete now. I think I'm going to submit them for iKerning soon \u2014 I
    figure any edits I'm going to make from now on will be minor tweaks. I'll also
    get started on the italics soon.\r\n\r\nCharacter inventories for the four weights:\r\n\r\nftp://ftp.mpia.de/pub/thalmann/eau/\r\n\r\nAnd
    some running text:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gara_3687.png]"
  created: '2012-11-29 13:09:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Your overall letter shapes have got some nice asymmetry into them, which
    is  working in mass, but you have some seriously wonky curves and weights that
    need fixing, in my opinion, before you get to kerning. For example (I am looking
    at regular only) the shoulder of your 'n' is thinner than the join, the opposite
    of normal, and I don't think looks good big. Your 'e' has some awkward flattening
    between 12 and 1:30, and the vertical stem is thinner than the top horizontal,
    which again I question. In general you are not following normal latin stress\u2014thick
    vertical, thin horizontal\u2014or old style, which is thinner in circular curves
    at 4:30 and 10:30, and thicker at 1:30 and 7:30. In a sans reducing these stresses
    is normal, but if you are going to reverse them it needs to be systematically
    and with a specific goal in mind,  which I'm not feeling here.   "
  created: '2012-11-29 18:47:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Particularly as your weights get heavier, you need more generous letterspacing.
  created: '2012-11-29 19:08:10'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ William: Thanks for catching that!  I was actually going for true monolinear,
    but it seems FontForge is not being very exact about it. If I'm going to have
    to hand-tune all letters to have consistent weights, I might as well add in some
    optical correction as well (particularly at the joins, as you mention). That's
    going to be a <em>lot</em> of extra work \u2014 and yeah, I know it's part of
    type design, but I was hoping for a quick and easy job here. I'm also wondering
    whether this is simply growing over my head in terms of skill, since I barely
    see these flaws that stick out to you. Perhaps I should leave the subtleties of
    the sans to the experts and return to making flashy display fonts.\r\n\r\nThe
    thickness variability seems to be less of a problem to me in the light weights
    \u2014 perhaps I should just focus on finishing and releasing those?  I do think
    that's where the font concept works best (see below for a demo of the Thin weight).
    I guess I'll still have to work on the curves though, as in the |e| that you pointed
    out.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/edg_demo_6148.png]\r\n\r\n@ Eliason:
    Yes, that's right. I was hoping I could get that done as part of the iKern process,
    but I might as well do some preparatory work myself."
  created: '2012-11-30 00:14:37'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "This is starting to look very nice. You still need to break fully away from
    the 'strokiness' by which i mean it still looks very rigidly monoline.\r\n\r\nAnd
    again I think you are putting the cart way before the horse by even thinking about
    multiple weights at this point."
  created: '2012-11-30 06:56:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Christian, quick and easy aren't adjectives associated with type design!
    I think you will regret releasing this prematurely, as it does have some things
    going for it, and it's not going to look professional if you push it out the door
    prematurely. \r\n\r\nIt took me two years working on type constantly before my
    eyes learned to see what was wrong. That something was wrong I could sense from
    the beginning, but I couldn't see what and how to correct it, and had to just
    keep trying variations until I hit on something. Then one day I woke up and went
    down to the computer and looked at the screen, and it hit me: hey, I know how
    to do this! Then I could *see* what was wrong and how to correct it. I came with
    no art background, so it might have taken me longer than for someone with more
    of a background, or someone with more raw talent. But there is definitely a learning
    curve for the eye and brain, which ramps up pattern recognition as you keep working
    on it, until you get 'type eyes'.\r\n\r\nOnce you get over that hump, things are
    a lot faster, and some type designers are astonishingly quick. But I think Matthew
    Carter said that watching him design type would be like watching ice freeze in
    the refrigerator.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-30 15:19:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I came with no art background</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot a bug,
    a feature.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-30 17:36:15'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Thanks for your support, this is really helpful. Eau should be pure and essential,
    so sloppy strokes and stunted curves have no place in it. I'll keep distilling
    it until it lives up to its name.\r\n\r\n@ William: I don't have any full-time
    years to dedicate to this \u2014 my day job is pretty demanding, and I don't have
    any art background either. So I'll have to learn quickly or pick another hobby
    with a shorter reward cycle...  However, I feel I've learnt a lot in the past
    few months already, thanks to the extremely helpful advice and feedback on this
    forum, so while that trend continues, I'll stick with it and see how far it will
    take me.\r\n\r\nHowever, I have to make a few decisions before I invest more work:\r\n\r\n-
    What range of weights do I need in the end? I know I'm supposed to perfect one
    weight first, but the choice of that weight is tricky. Currently, I'm leaning
    towards focusing on very light weights, maybe even just up to the \"Regular\"
    I've shown above. So maybe I should pick the Light or even the Thin as my work
    weight. I don't suppose this will ever become a workhorse sans, but if it should
    go even halfways in that direction, it will need a few much heavier weights, and
    that will require completely rethinking all letter shapes as space gets crowded,
    which I'm currently not planning to do. Do you think there's a market for a font
    like this with light weights only? It seems to work for Miso at least...\r\n\r\n-
    Contrast: I agree that the letters should not have counter-intuitive stroke stresses.
    However, how much contrast is actually needed? Is it OK to aim for monolinear
    and just lighten up the junctions a bit for optical correction, or am I required
    to some contrast even in unbroken curves, such as the |o|?\r\n\r\nIn the meantime,
    I'll focus my efforts on the |e| and maybe also the |a| of the Regular and try
    to tune them to \"professional\" quality. Hopefully that will teach me enough
    to do the same thing to the other letters.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-30 18:17:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why rush a \"hobby\"?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I know I'm supposed to perfect one
    weight first</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI don't see it that way - the various weight
    inform each other.\r\n\r\nNumber of weights: I like four.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-30 19:14:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: double post
  created: '2012-11-30 20:11:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On polishing this. First, I would read the short monograph The Stroke, by
    Gerrit Noordzij, which is originally in Dutch (I see you are Dutch), about the
    history of scripts. And then try doing Garamond with a broad marker. It's impossible,
    because type departs from natural strokes, but trying will give you the idea of
    the basis of old style letters, and what the eye expects. It will give you an
    idea of how type typically departs also. When you design something, you are playing
    against that expectation of broad pen 'rules'. Eg if you don't follow the bolder
    down-stroke, lighter up-stroke rule, and make them all uniform parts of the W
    will look fat. You will see where the joins are automatically thinned and thick,
    etc. You can break the rules, but if you do it should be systematically, for a
    purpose.  \r\n\r\nA second thing is to familiarize yourself with the optical illusions
    that are always at play in type design. A good summary is [[http://briem.net/|here]],
    but you need to nagivate to type design/basics/illusions. \r\n\r\nThese two will
    only take a few hours, and will up your game very quickly. The second thing is,
    to get an idea of professional quality curves, compare your glyphs to those of
    say Frutiger's self-named face or his Avenir. He is a real master, and remember
    you are competing with him! When I say compare, I mean paste one over the other
    and visa versa in Fontlab. \r\n\r\nHrant is right that different weights will
    inform one another. But if you are eager to get a first version out, then I would
    suggest just getting the regular very polished. You can always do a 2.0 version
    later...\r\n\r\nps I don't know about Font Forge, but I suspect it is an obstacle.
    If you try one of the other font editors out there, it may help. "
  created: '2012-11-30 20:14:35'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I don't seem to recall anybody suggesting you make your strokes sloppy, lol.  They
    should be more varied however. Check out <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/avant-garde-gothic/avant-garde/">Avant
    Garde</a>, a monoline font done right.  At first glance one thinks, "yes this
    is all monoline, all the strokes on everypart of it are the same width exactly."  But
    then, as one looks deeper, you find this is not really the case. Also, check out
    <a href="http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/Caspari_rdrct.html">Caspari</a>, which
    throws its weight around deliciously.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Catharsis
      picture: 124507
    body: "@ Ryan: \"I don't seem to recall anybody suggesting you make your strokes
      sloppy, lol.\" \u2014 Misunderstanding here. My <em>current</em> lines are sloppy,
      so they clash with the font's concept. I'm all for adding some stroke modulation
      to clean things up.\r\n\r\nI've never liked Avant Garde, but more from an overall
      shape perspective. It sure does look extremely monolinear.  Caspari is very
      pretty, looks like the next evolutionary step from Thesis. (Actually, on second
      thought, its |a| is too narrow. Pity.)"
    created: '2012-12-02 13:38:27'
  created: '2012-12-02 01:22:57'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<blockquote>Perhaps I should leave the subtleties of the sans to the experts
    and return to making flashy display fonts.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf you're really
    serious about that, I'd be glad to continue this on for you.  I can't promise
    you'll love the results as taste is an individual thing. I also can't promise
    you it will be done in a short amount of time.  But that said, if you're serious,
    I'd love to tear my teeth into this thing."
  created: '2012-12-02 02:00:29'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ William: Thanks for your suggestions!  I'll look around for The Stroke.
    I'm actually Swiss, only temporarily living in the Netherlands, so I'll go for
    a translation...  As for understanding the old-style stress pattern, I think I
    do have that one down; after all, I made a sort-of oldstyle font from scratch
    (Octant). It's just that I didn't think Eau would <em>want</em> to have any stress
    to begin with.\r\n\r\nI'm aware of that \"illusions\" website. It's very illuminating,
    though it mostly concerns itself with serif fonts. For instance, do caps still
    need to be heavier than lowercase in this case? Do you still need overshoot for
    round bottoms on the base line if your stems don't have any serifs (and therefore
    look rather flimsy themselves)? Looking at my Eau example above, I tend to think
    yes, my |o| is slightly too small.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-02 13:31:37'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Ryan again: \"If you're really serious about that, I'd be glad to continue
    this on for you.\" \u2014\r\nGood to know! I'll keep that in mind. I'll give it
    a try myself first, though. I don't yet know where my skill ceiling is. I'd certainly
    prefer to finish this under my own power if possible."
  created: '2012-12-02 13:44:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, all of the illusions apply to sans serif fonts. When I first saw this
    section of Briem, I was skeptical. Now when I look it's all crashingly obvious
    that it's correct. That's what I mean by the eyes learning, which I experienced.
    What you will experience before your eyes are tuned to seeing the o as too small
    etc. is that when you do what he says the font will seem more polished and 'right'.
    \r\n\r\nAs far as stress, yes if you want it to look monoline, and that means
    not actually being monoline, because of the illusions at joins, that verticals
    seem lighter than horizontals the same thickness, etc.  \r\n\r\nOne of the things
    about type design that still blows me away is that everything has to be different
    by mathematical measurement than the way it looks to the eye. *Every* character
    is affected. For example, I couldn't believe I had to spend time 'tuning' the
    plus sign so that the horizontal and vertical look even, the same. \r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I hate avant garde. The caps used with all the ligatures can work well, but the
    lower case is just ugly, with its too-wide c and e. But I know when it comes to
    'ugly' it's a matter of taste.  "
  created: '2012-12-02 14:37:33'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Catharsis, I would tend to agree that the 'caps must be heavier than lowercase'
    ideal is a bit overstated, certainly when it comes to a pure monoline font.  Why
    go through all that trouble to make all the strokes in the lowercase 'appear'
    to be all the same weight, and then distract away from that effect with a thicker
    upper case?\r\n\r\nHowever, you definitely need overshoot in pretty much every
    font, regardless of if it's a sans or a serif.  The only exception I can think
    to this rule would be fonts based on old quartz displays.  Think of the <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/lcd/\">\"fonts\"</a>
    that were built into VCRs and digital watches.  However this is probably mostly
    a technological restraint, they would have had to use more crystals to do any
    kind of overshoot."
  created: '2012-12-02 23:42:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Caps being heavier than lower case is a complicated subject. Partly, you
    just need to make them a little heavier because they have bigger internal spaces.
    So to at least match the 'color' (grey density) of the lower case, they need to
    be a little heavier. Old style fonts had caps a lot heavier, and with more space
    between them and the lower case than between lower case characters. \r\n\r\nBut
    whether to really overweight them is a design decision, not one of basic craft.
    The argument for that is that the caps are a different alphabet, and they are
    used as markers of beginning of sentences, etc., so having them heavy they serve
    more as markers. On the other hand, they disrupt the color and flow of the text
    more. In sans, the tendency these days seems to be to make the cap height relatively
    low, and keep the weight of them more matching. Personally I'm not crazy about
    this, but it's really arguable either way, and depends on the design.  "
  created: '2012-12-03 02:31:10'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I've tried tuning my |n o e| for a start. My letters have grown a bit larger
    (and thus lighter) due to overshoot, and I noticed smoothing out the curves tended
    to regularize them a bit too much, so I had to put the |e|'s characteristic rightward
    trend back in afterwards... I like the effect overall, though it still feels extremely
    subtle to me at this point. \r\n\r\nAccording to Briem, I'm supposed to make the
    |o| heavier than the stems of the |n|, but I couldn't really do that without hurting
    my eyes. My impression is that only makes sense when you have a high-contrast
    |o| where the stroke really tapers away from the middle instantly, which is not
    the case in a sans like this.\r\n\r\nIs this going in the right direction, and
    how far do I still have to go on these letters...?  Just to get an idea of the
    magnitude of the work ahead of me.\r\n\r\nBig/small:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/big_4394.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/small_5805.png]"
  created: '2012-12-03 16:54:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, curves do have to be thicker than straights to look equal. Your \"o\"
    there is clearly lighter (partly because it's so wide - which I think is actually
    good for readability).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-03 17:13:10'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<blockquote>It sure does look extremely monolinear. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nAhhh,
    but you see, that is the whole point!  It only \"looks\" monolinear!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AvantGardeBookBlueprint_4305.png]\r\nAvantGarde
    Book.  All units in em."
  created: '2012-12-03 20:47:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's still a horrid excuse of a font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-03 20:54:08'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Hrant: It doesn't look \"clearly lighter\" to me at all... sure, there's
    a big counter, but as far as the lines go, I just don't see it. I might just have
    hit my skill ceiling. \r\n\r\nThen again:\r\n\r\n@ Ryan: Nice example! I particularly
    find it interesting that the curves in |g| are not heavier (in fact, they're lighter
    on the left side!) than the bars in |t|...  is that just because |g| is a dense
    letter, or does the same thing happen in |o|?"
  created: '2012-12-03 21:34:46'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<blockquote>It's still a horrid excuse of a font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nLudicrous."
  created: '2012-12-03 21:48:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"horrid excuse of a font.\" :) \r\n\r\nBut the caps, when used with the
    alternates can work together. I forget who said that the only place Avant Garde
    ever looked good was in the nameplate on the magazine. The font was expanded from
    that. Jeremy Mickel did an impressive and clever job of creating Avant Garde style
    alternates in huge variety, so that every three letter monogram could be constructed
    with overlapping letters, like in the original name plate of the magazine.  It's
    called [[http://www.photolettering.com/plog/2012/aug/21/monograms-titles-or-playtry-sobriquet/|Sobriquet]]
    He actually improved the horrid C and G by having everything thin and carrying
    the strokes less far. It still only works with overlaps. \r\n\r\nI definitely
    disagree on Christian's latest o above. It's too wide. The o an n should have
    interior counters of about equal area. Otherwise you get uneven color. Christian,
    look at the *counters* in Garamond. It's those more than the exterior outline
    that give it its look. The problems with your earlier e didn't relate to its asymmetrical
    shape, which was good. It was the bumpy interior border of the arch at the top,
    and having the vertical arch thinner than the horizontal arch.    \r\n\r\nAbout
    thickening the vertical arch of the o compared to the horizontal arch. Classically,
    the vertical arch is fatter than the vertical on the n. But that's really a design
    decision. However, I think you're just wrong about it working only in a high-contrast
    font. Look at Myriad. I just checked the o. Vertical arch 89, horizontal arch
    66. The vertical is 35% fatter, but it doesn't look high contrast!\r\n\r\nAlso
    *always* look at your letters in context of other letters in your font, if you
    don't already. \r\n"
  created: '2012-12-03 21:53:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Ryan, hatred for Avant Garde is pretty widespread among designers. It''s
    not just Hrant and me. I know a lot of people love it. But they tend to be young
    and, er-um, inexperienced. It doesn''t wear well. '
  created: '2012-12-03 21:55:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>The o an n should have interior counters of about equal area.
    Otherwise you get uneven color.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich is the wellspring of
    readability. :-)  The equality you speak of I considering valid only in the realm
    of display type.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand if this is supposed to be based on Garamond
    then that's a strong design constraint too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-03 21:58:23'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "This is the o, Catharsis:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AvantGardeBookBlueprint_o_3713.png]"
  created: '2012-12-03 22:03:58'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Catharsis, this looks very interesting. Keep working on it!\r\n\r\nThe only
    thing I will like to add, is that all the weights are still a little bit light.\r\nFor
    a quick reference, this are the stem weights that I use (more or less) as guidelines:\r\nLight:
    About 40 or 50 units\r\nRegular: About 70 or 80 units\r\nBold: About 120 or 130
    units\r\n\r\nThe need to compensate the rounded stems is not so apparent on the
    lighter weights, like the ones you are working on right now. But they will become
    much more evident as your font gets bolder."
  created: '2012-12-04 02:19:22'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<blockquote>Ryan, hatred for Avant Garde is pretty widespread among designers.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n<em>Type</em>designers
    maybe.  Avant Garde Bold is being used in advertising everywhere right now, everywhere.
    \ It's like the current Helvetica, which I'm sure almost all typedesigners hate
    too, but they would be short sighted for that."
  created: '2012-12-04 05:34:04'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<blockquote>Partly, you just need to make them a little heavier because they
    have bigger internal spaces. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell said."
  created: '2012-12-04 05:59:35'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "<blockquote>I see what you mean. It's going to take a lot of manual work,
    though. I can use the square cap / miter bend expansion method as a starting point,
    but then I'll have to clean up countless intersections and clip extreme points.<blockquote>\r\n\r\nWelcome
    to being a type designer.  Hey at least you don't have to carve them in steel
    at actual size.\r\n\r\nAlso, I wouldn't worry at all about making extra weights
    until you have one absolutely nailed.  Take whatever weight you think is the \"normal\"
    or \"regular\" weight, delete all the rest.  Then work on that weight until it's
    perfect, until there's not one thing you want to change about it.  Only after
    that, start working on the extra weights."
  created: '2012-12-04 06:20:28'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Hrant, Ryan: The |o| of Garamond <em>does</em> look wide to me. It might
    have to do with the suprisingly generous spacing. Here's a comparison of Eau and
    EB Garamond. I seem to have increased the ratio of intra-letter to inter-letter
    space, but the |o| doesn't strike me as out of place. As Hrant mentioned, faithful
    recreation of Garamond's character is my main objective.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comparison_3471.png]\r\n\r\n@
    Pablo: I know my weights are very light. The reason is that I don't see this concept
    working anymore once the lines get so bold they have to squeeze to fit into the
    x-height. I didn't intend this as a book font. I wouldn't mind being proven wrong,
    though."
  created: '2012-12-04 08:56:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Note the *counter,* the interior space on the n and o. In your version of
    Garamond the o counter seems even smaller than the n. Again, counters count!
  created: '2012-12-04 20:51:11'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "I don't really have any major issues with your o.  Only thing I might do
    is stretch it out vertically a bit, the bottom of the e looks a lot lower than
    the bottom of the o doesn't it?\r\n\r\neither that or make the e less tall"
  created: '2012-12-04 22:24:07'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Ryan: The |e| and |o| were exactly the same size. I suppose they might
    look different due to their different proportions, but from what I can tell other
    fonts (like EB Garamond) also use the same overshoot for |e o| even if the letters
    have diverging proportions.\r\n\r\n@ William: I've made the |o|, along with |b
    d p q|, a bit narrower, and I agree it looks rather good. They're probably still
    a bit wider than the |n|, though.\r\n\r\nI've completed a first round of revising
    the lowercase letters. How does this look?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rev1_5325.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    had some trouble optically correcting |v w y| without making the strokes look
    wobbly. However, I've had some rather eye-opening aha! moments with |b d p q|,
    which look a <em>lot</em> better with tapered joins and smooth curves.\r\n\r\nPDF
    version for free scaling: ftp://ftp.mpia.de/pub/thalmann/eau/rev1.pdf"
  created: '2012-12-05 19:23:29'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: 'a long way to go still '
  children:
  - author:
      name: Catharsis
      picture: 124507
    body: "<cite>a long way to go still</cite>\r\n\r\nAlright, this is clearly beyond
      me. I'll focus my energies on my display font projects, where such things are
      more acceptable as \"quirkiness\".\r\n\r\n@ Ryan: If you're still interested
      in taking the lead on this, let's talk terms. E-mail is probably best. I'd certainly
      want to remain a co-author of the font and learn a thing or two from the experience."
    created: '2012-12-08 01:09:23'
  created: '2012-12-07 05:21:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Because the join of the n and the top of the b are at about the same angle,
    they should have the same thinning for the consistency of your design. My guess
    is that the right weight to look monotone, if you want that, is in between the
    two, but you decide. I think consistency is more imperative for a well-crafted
    face. '
  created: '2012-12-07 14:21:54'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Check out Rosario by Hector Gatti\r\nhttp://www.google.com/webfonts/specimen/Rosario"
  created: '2012-12-07 17:56:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Somebody should respace that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-07 18:08:56'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Hrant, \r\nThe Rosario fonts where in use during a lot of years at the Cosgaya
    Chair in the UBA for all their printed materials and they where also used in print
    for a few books before being released at Google Webfonts this year.\r\nI'm now
    flipping through a book set in Rosario, and I don't see any spacing problem (Scan
    attached).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rosarioinuse_4185.jpg]"
  created: '2012-12-07 20:11:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Look right there in the first word (of the GF link). Please don't tell me
    \"rum\" is balanced. In your (arguably too low-res) print sample, look at \"estir\xF3\"
    (at the beginning of the fourth paragraph).\r\n\r\nI wonder, how many hours did
    Gatti spend on spacing? Just for reference, I'm currently finishing a spacing
    commissions: limited character set, two weights (with very close Italics) = about
    15 hours. Zero automation BTW.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-07 20:20:38'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "I agree on \"rum\" but not sure about \"estir\xF3\".\r\nAlso, worth saying
    that this kind of things usually happen to \"print-world fonts\" when used on
    the web. Web browsers do all kind of strange things to space and kern. Some sizes
    work better than other, may be due to rounding errors, hinting, and 'who knows
    what' other rendering variables that come into play.... Testing it in print may
    be a good idea. I know this font was highly prized/admired among the Argentinian
    type-scene, so I'm very happy that it's now available for everyone to use it.\r\n\r\n>
    I wonder, how many hours did Gatti spend on spacing? Just for reference\r\nI don't
    know. Ask Hector, or maybe Pablo Cosgaya.\r\n\r\nEven better, since the font is
    now libre and the source code is available, you (or anyone) can also help to improve
    it."
  created: '2012-12-07 21:42:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>not sure about \"estir\xF3\".</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou don't see
    how \"tir\" is much tighter than the rest of the word, especially the \"r\xF3\"?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Web
    browsers do all kind of strange things</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGranted, but frankly
    that's clearly an excuse here. Rosario is poorly spaced, plain and simple. And
    Google should have gotten (read: paid for) better spacing.\r\n\r\nPlease don't
    invent excuses just because a font saves some people money. In fact if saving
    money is relevant to some people (users) why would it be irrelevant to others
    (makers)?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>this font was highly prized/admired among the Argentinian
    type-scene</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI don't doubt that. Just like Mrs. Eaves was (and
    still is) so heavily used, even though the spacing is -also- strictly amateur.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>you
    (or anyone) can also help to improve it.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe way that works
    is I wait for somebody to pay me to fix it. Unless there's some big sociocultural
    contribution involved. But Rosario is just another cutesy sans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-07 22:27:06'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Don't give up, I think this has promise!\r\n\r\nWhatever the opinion of an
    amateur such as myself is worth, here are some of my immediate impressions...\r\n\r\nIt
    looks quite 'casual' at a glance, as if it's meant to evoke neat-ish hand printing
    with a pencil.  If that's what you're going for then it's pretty nice.  On the
    other hand, that doesn't really mesh with 'faithful evocation of Garamond' in
    my mind.  On closer examination, I think it's only a few elements that create
    that casual effect.\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>The tail of the /a: It extends too much for
    a 'serious' looking sans in my opinion.  It's reminiscent of the 'monkey tails'
    in <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:D%27Nealian_Manusript.png\">this
    type of</a> child's manuscript model.  \r\n\r\nI realize it's a faithful interpretation
    of the Garamond /a's tail, but I think you're being a bit too literal.  Surely
    it's the <em>spirit</em> of Garamond you want to capture more than the rigid shapes.
    \ If it helps, imagine that the tapering end of Garamond-a's tail is a serif rather
    than a base stroke.  You dropped the serif from the top of the /a, the bottom
    should balance out in similar fashion.  (Or so it seems to me.)\r\n\r\n<li>The
    upper-right curvature of /e seems to point a bit too much upward and to the right.
    \ I think you've focused on matching the top curve of the Garamond /e at the expense
    of losing the characteristic shape of the eye's outside-right.\r\n\r\n<li>The
    tail of /g just doesn't seem harmonious with the rest of the font.  I think it
    comes across as too 'pointy' on the right, which feels slightly disruptive.\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    I think you've got something with definite potential here.  Besides the elements
    I mentioned, i quite like the overall shape and feel."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Catharsis
      picture: 124507
    body: "@ altsan: I'm not giving up at all. To the contrary, I think teaming up
      with a pro to do this idea justice is the opposite of giving up.\r\n\r\nAs a
      matter of fact, the letters |a| and |e| that you criticize are the ones that
      carry the most \"Garamond\" spirit as I see it. The |a| is my favorite character
      of Garamond (at least of the prettier realizations of Garamond), and it is also
      my favorite character of Eau. Clipping its monkey-tail would undo a lot of the
      font's character and bring it closer to being \"just another cutesy sans\",
      as Hrant might put it. As for the |e|'s eye, I was following the Garamond shape
      more closely in an earlier version (with a soft corner on the bottom right of
      the eye), but didn't like the looks of it.\r\n\r\nI agree the |g| could stand
      a bit of rounding. I already smoothed out the shape of the connecting stem between
      the two stories, which had much more tension in Garamond. Let's see how much
      smoothing it will stand before it loses touch with the source. I'd rather break
      some sans conventions than give up the premise. \r\n\r\nAs for evoking a hand-written
      feel, isn't that what humanist fonts are all about?  ;o) Some glyphs in my draft
      does give me a somewhat clumsy hand-written vibe, but they're different ones
      that the ones you mention. What I don't like is |v x y|. They look like they're
      built from toothpicks next to the more alive- and grounded-looking other glyphs.
      Don't know what to do about that, though. The teeny weeny tip the |y|'s tail
      is particularly oogly, I think I'll have to take some liberties there. Maybe
      treat the tip as a serif, as you suggested for |a|..."
    created: '2012-12-09 00:09:14'
  created: '2012-12-08 14:58:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is the wobbliness of the curves intentional?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-21 01:09:41'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "A couple weeks ago, Catharsis and I entered into discussion and came to an
    agreement regarding Eau (temporary working name).   I will now be handling the
    polishing and completing of the font, while continuing to incorporate Catharsis's
    opinions on the various proofs.\r\n\r\nWhen we both agree it is finished, we will
    be co-releasing it, and sharing all revenue 50/50%.  I imagine in the end I will
    have put in a lot more hours of work than Catharsis, but without the spark and
    initial work of Catharsis, Eau would simply never have existed. I count myself
    as very lucky to be part of this project, and will always view mine and Catharsis's
    contributions as equal.\r\n\r\nI hope this thread will continue to get the quality
    of suggestions it has previously.  While perhaps I am slightly more skilled than
    Catharis, I am certainly no master yet, and can use all the help I can get.\r\n\r\nThe
    first thing I did was to thicken the weight slightly, and take ever so slightly
    away from the monolinearity of Eau, in order to give it a more (hopefully) elegant
    sense of \"body.\"\r\n\r\nThe spacing is not 100% where I would like it, but I
    want to get the UC, LC, and figure glyphs down before I attempt to perfect the
    spacing.  No kerning or ligatures have been created at all yet.\r\n\r\nAs Hrant
    has suggested elsewhere, and as perhaps I have never fully understood until now,
    the lowercase g has been an ungodly pain, it has required vastly more work than
    any of the other glyphs, and it still has a ways to go.  I have included it at
    a large size at the bottom of this proof for closer inspection.\r\n\r\nI have
    also included at large size other glyphs that I feel need to have kind of \"swashy
    tails.\"  The tails of the y, the Q, and the R are intended to be the points of
    highest contrast at the joins in this monolinear design.  They look OK to me but
    I would appreciate comments.\r\n\r\nI will not be posting any pdfs or otherwise
    vector-based samples here.  However, I hope by rendering out some large bitmaps
    it will provide enough to offer accurate opinion on.  Also, if anyone would like
    to see a particular glyph or word at extra large size, I would be quite happy
    to create a sample and post it.\r\n\r\nThanks, all.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AramondTestSpec122012_4170.png]"
  created: '2012-12-21 01:12:18'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "No it's not intentional. Still ironing things out. \r\n\r\nCould you be more
    specific?"
  created: '2012-12-21 02:38:17'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: That all you're going to say, Hrant?
  created: '2012-12-21 18:02:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not sure how to help. If you can't see it you can't see it. Maybe it's
    a blessing!\r\n\r\nBut OK, here's the first one: can you see how the left half
    of the \"Q\" is \"pinched\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-21 18:22:02'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: It does appear narrower on the left side than the right (even though technically
    they are both the same thickness, yes I measured, lol).  But I'm attempting to
    give this a slight horizontal stress.  If I release the "pinch" there it would
    look just as thick at 3 o'clock and 9'oclock as it is at 12 o'clock.  OK, so then
    I could thicken it at 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock, but then the glyph would be too
    thick there compared to the other glyphs.  Can you explain how you might try to
    fix it?
  created: '2012-12-21 18:40:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have my own fonts to make!  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW by \"pinched\" I didn't mean
    about the thickness - I mean about the curvature.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-21 18:48:58'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Hmmm, do you mean it's not a perfect circle?  Because that is true, its more
    of a horizontally wide oval on the left side, and closer to a perfect circle on
    the right.  It's more \"elongated,\" you could say, on the left hand side.  If
    that's what you mean then, yes, that was intentional. It matches the deformation
    of the Garamond O we are basing it on.\r\n\r\nI want to keep some of the imperfectness
    of the Garamond here.  I'm not looking to turn this into a perfect geometrical
    version, to me, that wouldn't be a garamond anymore.  IDK, perhaps I just misinterpreted
    the use of the world \"wobbly?\"  I mean, just as a quick example, <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/type-together/rue-display/regular/\">this</a>
    is what I think of when I think of \"wobbly.\""
  created: '2012-12-21 19:00:25'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "I guess that hrant is talking of 'wobbliness' as something more like \"geometric
    continuity\".\r\nThere are a few tools that can help you improve your outlines,
    like the RMX Harmoniser (1) or Yanone Speedpunk (2). Using these tools you will
    also learn to see the 'wobbliness', by comparing the before and after results.
    \r\n(1) http://remix-tools.com/harmonizer\r\n(2) http://www.yanone.de/typedesign/code/speedpunk/"
  created: '2012-12-21 20:57:49'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Where do you see the wobble, Pablo?
  created: '2012-12-22 04:17:37'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "In those places:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/here_5143.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-22 06:44:01'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "This is all very educational, keep going.  :)\r\n\r\nSo by wobbliness you
    mean a discontinuity in curvature? But then, is it really possible to achieve
    a non-wobbly transition between a straight segment and a line with B\xE9zier curves?\r\n\r\nI
    also didn't know you couldn't make a circle with B\xE9zier curves.  They sure
    look circular to me."
  created: '2012-12-24 12:21:15'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I wish Speed Punk was available for PC.
  created: '2012-12-24 16:55:10'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: If I got rid of all those whatever-they-ares, would the design actually be
    better?  Maybe it would only be more bland?
  created: '2012-12-24 17:00:22'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Only one way to know: Fix a few letters and compare both version.\r\n\r\nFor
    example: You can fix /h/a/m/b/u/r/g/e/f/o/n/s/t/i/v, generate a new font, and
    quickly compare both versions using the drag-and-drop testing page at http://www.impallari.com/testing/"
  created: '2012-12-24 17:43:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Crappy curves are not what you want to give your typeface interest.
  created: '2012-12-24 19:36:45'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Hmmm, perhaps it's time to take this over to TTF.  Quadratic curves to the
    rescue!
  created: '2012-12-24 21:17:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Craig, I wish that were true. :-/  We've been seeing so many wannabe-fauve
    fonts become so popular lately.* But they're intentionally so, and that's key;
    Ryan, you need to know what's going on. If you can't even see how/where it's dorky,
    I can't see this working out. I mean, some parts might be non-dorky hence out-of-character,
    and you wouldn't even realize it!\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/99070\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-24 21:23:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Let me add to Craig and Hrant. This is the blind leading the blind. You guys
    (Christian and Ryan) need to study what Briem says, and follow it, for a start.
    Those strokes are hideous.  '
  created: '2012-12-24 22:25:32'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Lol, hideous, he says.  Hey don't hold back on our account, William, tell
    us what you really think.
  created: '2012-12-25 01:51:53'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Ryan has stepped back from the job for now (and from the forum in general,
    as I understand).\r\n\r\nDoes anyone of you pros feel like picking up the torch?
    The baseline offer is 50% of the net earnings after MyFonts' cut, but we can negotiate. "
  created: '2012-12-27 02:46:01'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi, I did not comment before since there have been several interesting attempts
    in producing an almost monolinear \"sans\" version of Garamond models.\r\nI think
    it would be good to check out how things have been approached by:\r\n\r\n- Alan
    Meeks - Claude Sans (1988): http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/claude-sans/\r\n(it\u2019s
    rounded, but it doesn\u2019t matter: it is well drawn).\r\n\r\n\r\n- Yasuhiro
    Yamaoka - Practica (1991-2002): http://yoworks.blogspot.it/2009/02/yofonts-practica-at-beginning-in-1991.html#links\r\n(forms
    are based on the proportions of Apple Garamond).\r\n\r\n- Frantisek Storm: Jannon
    Sans (2011): http://www.stormtype.com/family-jannon-sans.html\r\n(not Garamond,
    and pretty modulated, but may give some useful ideas).\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-27 18:57:43'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Piccic: I'm aware of Claude Sans; it's been mentioned before in this thread.
    Personally, I think it's butt-ugly, so I can't feel threatened by it.  :P  Practica
    doesn't strike me as particularly Garamondesque; probably due to the condensed
    proportions of the Apple Garamond it's inspired by (I think \"based upon\" would
    be saying too much).  Likewise, Jannon Sans suffers from being based on a particularly
    uncouth version of Garamond \u2014 I honestly don't understand why people took
    Jannon seriously in the olden days, much less why they still do these days. It's
    just plain malformed. Just look at that sad, beer-bellied |a|!  ;o)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    the offer stands."
  created: '2012-12-28 00:24:25'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Claude Sans is well drawn, not so much usable, but well drawn (not a surprise
    since it\u2019s from Alan Meeks).\r\nPractica is really well done if you consider
    Yasuhiro did not have any formal type design education, and went on drawing and
    redrawing, which is the only way to get the forms right. Considering Apple Garamond
    as the starting point, I think he managed to keep the essential characteristics
    of the forms while designing it.\r\nI have always liked Jannons, so it doesn\u2019t
    make much sense for me to comment about those: clearly they aren\u2019t \"proper
    Garamonds\", but saying \"malformed\" doesn\u2019t make sense."
  created: '2012-12-28 12:54:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Considering Apple Garamond as the starting point</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    guess that was the problem.  :-)\r\n\r\nI wouldn't call Jannon \"malformed\",
    but I don't like it either. That \"a\" does need to be flogged in a Parisian square.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 13:29:01'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I did not like Apple Garamond so much myself, but Practica is good.\r\nI
    mentioned it because you can always look at the solutions he adopted and apply
    them to an original Garamond."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Catharsis
      picture: 124507
    body: "@ William: That's an interesting proposition. Just looking at those other
      sanses inspired by Garamond, I can see there's a lot of different approaches
      to this theme, which are all notably different from what I have in mind. It
      makes sense, then, for me to establish a solid definition of what I'm trying
      to achieve before I pass it to someone else. I'll try to put together a polished
      hamburgefonstiv as a first step (though I'm sure I'll need a lot of help on
      the way*). I'll worry about completion and polishing if and when I get there.\r\n\r\n@
      I agree that Practica is a nice font, it just doesn't strike me as very Garamond-y.
      As for the intentions behind Eau, I'm certainly not aiming at a book font. I
      see its niche more along the lines of, say, Gill Sans Light \u2014 an airy display
      font capable of carrying short texts.\r\n\r\n*I think I understand the concept
      of a \"wobbly\" curve now... but as for Briem's illusions, I think I'll simply
      have to follow the recommendations blindly.  I don't see those things yet. Actually,
      I see the heavier strokes of the Claude Sans capitals as almost comically out
      of place among the lowercase letters \u2014 and that font has been quoted as
      being particularly well-drawn...   :P  \r\n\r\nI'm wondering whether returning
      to a lighter work weight might make that process easier or harder... If I only
      ever complete one weight, I'd want it to be a light one."
    created: '2012-12-29 23:44:38'
  created: '2012-12-28 19:47:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm not that impressed with the other attempts to get sans from Garamond,
    which Claudio posted. That tells me that it's quite a challenge, which is what
    I suspected. \r\n\r\nI commented here because I thought there was something in
    the letter shapes that was good. But I also felt that the proportions needed to
    be harmonized, and the strokes and curves needed some serious work. Christian,
    what merits this has so far came from you. And the weaknesses. If you have someone
    'take it from here', it is sufficiently incomplete that my feeling is that it
    will will inevitably change and probably lose what good it has. If you had a polished
    a-z, or even hamburgerfonts, someone else could develop it, but at this point
    I think it's your baby. Unlike a real baby, you also put it aside and come back
    to it with fresh eyes later. \u2014I think that's pretty common amongst designers.
    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-12-28 19:58:43'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi William,\r\nto be honest, to me it doesn\u2019t even make sense the basic
    idea of having \u201Ca sans\u201D out of a typeface.\r\nSerifs are not something
    attached, and if that was born that way, it means serifs were part of the designs.\r\n\r\nI
    mentioned those because are well done, but clearly any attempt is a departure
    from the original (especially Claude).\r\n\r\nIn the attempt of Catharsis I just
    see an attempt to get at the \"skeleton\" of Garamond, which is not, strictly
    speaking, designing a linear version."
  created: '2012-12-28 20:17:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>it doesn\u2019t even make sense the basic idea of having \u201Ca
    sans\u201D out of a typeface.\r\nSerifs are not something attached</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWith
    that I totally agree.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 20:58:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Claudio, I agree that sans are a different animal. You can be ''inspired
    by'' a serif font, and I don''t see anything wrong with that. But I agree it is
    inevitably going to be very different if it is any good. The designer is going
    to have to have design ideas different from the serif. It''s going to be a creative
    process on its own, which stands or falls on its own merits. I tried to argue
    something like that early in this thread. '
  created: '2012-12-29 00:22:57'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi William, I did not read your previous comment, as I was mostly looking
    at how Catharsis approached the work. I see you pretty much already focused on
    the problems.\r\nTo be clear, I am not saying you can\u2019t try to capture the
    essential qualities of an original text face, but I think it needs more to start
    than just identifying its \"skeletal\" forms, so to speak, and I think it\u2019s
    hard to produce a book-aimed typeface. But again, maybe it wasn\u2019t Catharsis
    intention.\r\nThat\u2019s why I mentioned those three: Claude Sans is clearly
    a titling face, decorative and not meant for long text, but it evokes Garamond-like
    features."
  created: '2012-12-29 22:07:48'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Catharsis: Now that I see you are aiming at display/titling, why don\u2019t
    you concentrate just on the lighter weight? Marian by Paul Barnes individuates
    the skeletons of the forms (of many lead types, or \"models\"), while you could
    try to get more into Garamond\u2019s essence by adding some modulation or stroke
    treatment.\r\nThis could prove interesting, and less abstract. Something like
    what Storm did with Jannon, but simpler and with attention to the lead Garamonds."
  created: '2012-12-30 11:19:54'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Re: Claude Sans. I was speaking strictly of drawings, not of how the overall
    typeface works.\r\nBut I do think it works (I have used it and of course not for
    text): I think Meeks followed something in the lines of the Imprimerie Nationale
    Garamond or the like, where there is a pretty different treatment of uppercase
    and lowercase, and where the Italics have a markedly different angle between the
    two."
  created: '2012-12-30 11:24:57'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, I've gone over hamburgefonstiv of my rather light \"Regular\" weight
    and implemented Briem's recommendations for countering optical illusions. I've
    used the same weight ratio for horizontal vs vertical and straight vs round stems
    as does Gill Sans Light, since our fonts are pretty similar. That didn't change
    much, since I had already been close to those weight distributions after my first
    try. I regularized the thickness of tapered-down connections, though, and gave
    round strokes an ever so slight stress along the forward diagonal.\r\n\r\nI've
    also tried to make the resulting curves smooth and pretty. It sure helps to know
    what it is I'm trying to avoid! Not sure how well it worked, though.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2lines_4787.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1line_5332.png]\r\n\r\nBetter?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I've just installed the demo version of Glyphs, and quite like the handling. The
    above was done in Glyphs. I suppose I'm going to buy it soon, though first I'd
    like to figure out whether I can import my other fonts into Glyphs (Glamour &
    Glory failed last time I tried)."
  created: '2012-12-30 17:57:46'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Looks better, but I think you should cut most of the terminals (at least
    those of f and t) in a way which feels less \u201Cautomatic\u201D: it\u2019s those
    subtleties which improve the overall design, besides the harmony of curves."
  created: '2012-12-30 22:33:42'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: Not quite sure what you mean... can you elaborate? Are you talking about the
    spurs to the left of the stems in |f t|, or the curved terminals?
  created: '2012-12-30 23:27:02'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hmm\u2026 no, I was talking of the terminations: the upper right one in the
    [f] and the lower right one on the [t], and then any other ending which looks
    too much \u201Ccut by default\" by the software and not by design choice."
  created: '2012-12-31 12:53:01'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I still don't know what you mean. Those terminals do look pretty natural
    to me. Garamond does not have any angled serifs in either of these places, so
    why shouldn't the stroke just end there? Do you think I should try vertical cuts
    instead?\r\n\r\nBy the way, I've just tried out SpeedPunk, and I find it quite
    insightful. Here's the |e| before and after tuning with SpeedPunk.  I can't really
    tell the difference side-by-side (can you?), but when I toggle between the old
    and new version in Glyphs, I find the new one notably nicer.  I'll do the same
    to the rest of the hamburgefonstiv.\r\n\r\nI also checked Gill Sans Light with
    SpeedPunk, and find it has some surprising discontinuities of curvature here and
    there. Is it considered a badly drawn typeface, or is there a certain leeway in
    discontinuity that's considered acceptable?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ee_5238.png]"
  created: '2013-01-01 19:57:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The one on the right is definitely smoother, but it's too thin at 7 o'clock
    and 11 o'clock.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-01 20:01:08'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I see what you mean at 11; not so much at 7 (but I suppose it could use a
    hint of diagonal stress there?). Hmm, I'll have to take care not to use SpeedPunk
    blindly \u2014 I basically have three free parameters available for each discontinuity.
    \r\n\r\nWhat's the least invasive way of mending a bump? Shifting the curve point
    without moving the anchors?\r\n\r\nSo what's the standard level of smoothness
    among popular commercial fonts? Is Gill Sans typical, or a bad example?"
  created: '2013-01-01 23:01:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "At the top end, unless bumpiness is intentional (which would be very carefully
    controlled however) everything tends to be super smooth. But you can still sell
    a font to many people even if some people will complain.  :-)\r\n\r\nGill Sans
    is a bad example because -like pretty much any originally metal font- it's gone
    through a lot of... convulsions before reaching us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-01 23:29:23'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I've tried a few other examples with SpeedPunk \u2014 Arial, Calibri, Ubuntu,
    Anivers \u2014 and found non-continuous curvatures everywhere. What's a good (and
    if possible, free or pre-installed on a Mac) example of a super-smooth font?\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    here's my lowercase after SpeedPunk-based tuning:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lc_3941.png]"
  created: '2013-01-02 01:39:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If SpeedPunk doesn't like Calibri, then SpeedPunk has a problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-02 01:51:26'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "This is what SpeedPunk thinks about Calibri's |e|:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calibri_6552.png]\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, there's a bit of a curvature jump at the apex of the eye.  I take it
    from your comment that this sort of thing is no problem...? \r\n\r\nFor the record,
    I love Calibri.\r\n\r\nSo, any \"hideous\" strokes left in my lowercase?"
  created: '2013-01-02 02:30:46'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Catharsis: No, you understood, that\u2019s what I meant: maybe not vertical
    cuts (rather unnatural, in this case, but a midway solution).  I believe the more
    you work on detail, the more it will look natural. Looks already pretty good,
    although the eye of the [g] still looks strange. Maybe would not be bad to make
    it more regular, although it may follow less the original form?\r\n\r\nI tried
    to check Glyphs (can\u2019t find a link to download a demo of SpeedPunk) but the
    interface hinders me."
  created: '2013-01-06 21:12:05'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Why would the cuts be anything but either orthogonal or vertical?  Those
    strokes in Garamond end in drop-shaped or tapering terminals; that doesn't suggest
    any particular cut angle. An orthogonal cut, as I have it now, feels the most
    natural to me. And Myriad seems to be doing just fine with its orthogonal cuts...\r\n\r\nI
    like the \"special\" shape of the |g|'s eye. It looks like that in Garamond too.
    Could it be seen as a feature rather than a bug? I'm not aiming at \"yet another
    conformist sans\" after all.  :)\r\n\r\nSpeedPunk does not have a demo.  I got
    the commercial version, which works with the demo of Glyphs (which I'm also going
    to buy soon; it rocks).\r\n\r\nHowever, I still can't open my Glamour & Glory
    fonts with Glyphs; no idea why.  :("
  created: '2013-01-07 00:48:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The problems I have had with the strokes didn't relate primarily to curves
    of outlines, though these need improving. You can have smooth or bent curves if
    they make sense with the overall stroke. Lucas de Groot likes to draw his letters
    by hand first to get an organic feeling. Then to preserve that in the digital
    font he has those intermediate nodes (between extremes). \r\n\r\nDoing the stuff
    by hand first is certainly not the only way to do it, but it's one way to make
    the strokes look logical and organic to start with. \r\n\r\nMy problem primary
    problem with your strokes was that they got thick and thin without any systematic
    visual logic. You can design stuff anyway you want but without a lot of consistency
    a design of an alphabet just doesn't hold together. As I wrote earlier in the
    thread, what the eye expects is pen rules, modified. Absolute consistency is not
    required, but when you depart from, say stems being the same width, you should
    have a good reason for it. For example the M strokes are often shrunk a little
    bit because it is so busy and compact compared to most upper case letters. And
    you can make the l fatter because it is all alone with space on both sides. If
    you like Calibri, study it, pasting characters over one another and see what I
    mean by consistency with exceptions. \r\n\r\nGenerally, as I said you are working
    against expectations of pen logic, with modifications. As far as curves, you need
    to get to were your stroke is thick to where it's thin in a graceful way. And
    where the stress is\u2014thicks and thins\u2014 has to have some consistency.
    This is true even when you have a low contrast sans.  \r\n\r\nAs far as cuts on
    the ends of strokes, I don't see a problem with that. I also like the asymmetry
    in your g, but it still needs some work to iron out some awkwardness. Same with
    the top of the loop in the a\u2014even though I think your a is already better
    than those in the Garamond \"sans\" efforts referenced above. \r\n\r\nYou also
    have problems with widths. Your b looks too wide compared to your c, for example.
    You really need to put these into familiar words and play with them until they
    click as far as width and spacing, if they are going to end up being really good.
    Also usually the bottom left of the b and top right of the q are usually handled
    similarly, as the q is sort of a rotated b, so there being different here is a
    question. But there are a lot of problems of consistency, I think.  "
  created: '2013-01-07 03:12:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>what the eye expects is pen rules, modified</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCut
    the cord, my friend. That's not your mom anyway.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-07 05:35:45'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ William: In my above sample, I've regularized the widths of my vertical,
    horizontal, and tapering stems, and tried to add some subtle diagonal contrast
    to some letters, including the |n| class and the |o| class. Is that not enough
    contrast, or it it just not consistent enough? Can you give me a concrete example
    of what needs fixing, and how? I don't know where to start.\r\n\r\nWhat kind of
    \"work\" is needed on |a| and |g|?  Contrast, or guiding the curves differently?\r\n\r\nI'll
    look into the character widths more. I've tried to model them on Garamond, but
    as you pointed out, I should probably compare counter area rather than overall
    glyph widths. I'll play around a bit.\r\n\r\nAs for |b| vs |q|: I thought they
    were quite differently handled in Garamond, but looking back at them that's not
    true.  I guess I'll add a stem stump to the |q|, then. \r\n\r\n@ Hrant: This is
    confusing enough for me without someone talking in code.  ;o)"
  created: '2013-01-07 11:25:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I was referring to the persistent, cloying, warm & fuzzy illusion that chirography
    plays the -or even a- core role in type. Sadly typography is like a 40-something
    guy still living with his mom, calligraphy and his dad, lettering.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-07 14:31:12'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Never figured calligraphy and lettering were married. And I do live with
    my parents. :)\r\n\r\n@Catharsis: To me, the fact that the letters are modulated
    in a certain way (calligraphy had and has its influence, anyway) suggests a cut
    that is neither vertical nor at 45 degrees, but rather midway, but do as you are
    pleased with: I just thought the plain cut you have suggests too much a computer-generated
    inheritance, without interventions on detail, I mean not a deliberate drawing
    choice but rather something \"automatic\" if you see what I mean.\r\n\r\nI find
    Glyphs' interface a little bit too schematic, but maybe you have used it extensively.
    So far, I just used Fontstudio and then FontLab. It took me forever to get into
    Fontlab, so I feel Glyphs' interface pretty \"alien\".\r\nWhere did you buy the
    SpeedPunk license? On the Yanone website there seems to be no indication that
    it is already released."
  created: '2013-01-07 16:40:39'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Addendum @ William: \"You also have problems with widths. Your b looks too
    wide compared to your c, for example. You really need to put these into familiar
    words and play with them until they click as far as width and spacing, if they
    are going to end up being really good.\"\r\n\r\nI think I'll leave the commission
    the spacing from a pro when I'm done...  as for the widths, I can't see the imbalance
    you mention between |b| and |c|.  This looks fine to me, apart from the spacing
    issues:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bc_5400.png]\r\n\r\nAre those
    imbalances keeping Eau from being a good font in general, or just from being a
    replacement for Myriad (which is not my intent)? "
  created: '2013-01-09 01:09:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, in my opinion, and it's not only mine by any means, you can't separate
    spacing from design of the characters, particularly their widths. I think to get
    them right you have to put them into words and tune the width and spacing until
    they are as polished as yes, Myriad\u2014or Frutiger. As Mario Feliciano said
    to me once: you want beautiful words, not beautiful letters. You can only do that
    by testing on words. The words need to knit into a unit, and then they need to
    be able to disappear when you read them in extended reading. \r\n\r\nAm I sure
    about the b and c? No you have to test and adjust, test and adjust. A way many
    do is to start with the n and o, and get on, no, noon to work, and then build
    from there. "
  created: '2013-01-09 01:35:01'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I think it\u2019s pretty good, in general.\r\nYou should not consider spacing
    a separate matter: it is part of the design, no matter the destination you have
    thought for the typeface (es. display sizes).\r\nPersonally, I do not feel my
    typeface is truly designed until I add good overall spacing. Little kerning is
    generally needed if you try to work out spacing.\r\n\r\nWidths of the letters
    do not look bad, at the point you have reached I think it is mostly a matter of
    adjusting spacing to your best. The problem is that with an almost monotonal type
    like the one you have obtained, and with very light stroke witth, too, spacing
    defects tend to be magnified: you need to space it even better than if it was
    a Garamond! :-)"
  created: '2013-01-09 11:47:04'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: 'Quick status update: I''ve found a pro interested in producing Eau. Stay
    tuned.  :)'
  created: '2013-01-31 14:48:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pretty cool actually \u2013 I agree it deserves more fame.\r\n\r\nBTW it's
    not actually libre (no modification allowed) but simply free.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-01-15 03:45:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Classiq\u2019s caps are far too heavy for the lowercase."
  created: '2015-01-21 02:09:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "True, in the darker weights especially. The good news is that splicing together
    different interpolations could make for a quick fix.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-01-21 02:22:38'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "<blockquote>I'd be really interested to hear what happened to this</blockquote>\r\nIt's
    currently on ice. I'm glad I stopped working on it when I did: Looking back on
    it now, I see I clearly lacked the skill to pull off a good sans. \r\n\r\nI'm
    working on a high-contrast serif Garamond now (see the \"Paramond\" thread), which
    teaches me a lot about Garamonds in general.  I might revisit the sans after that.\r\n\r\nI'm
    actually thinking of stealing the name \"Eau de Garamond\" for my serif face,
    and going with \"Air de Garamond\" for the the sans if I ever get round to it.\r\n\r\nAs
    for Classiq, I'm rather unimpressed by it.  It does look like a Garamond at first
    sight, but I find its execution rather harsh upon closer inspection, especially
    in the italics. Looking at the posters on the website, I also suspect the spacing
    needs more work. "
  created: '2015-01-21 12:38:01'
- author:
    name: Glider
  body: "I'd be really interested to hear what happened to this, as it's a very nice
    design. For anyone interested, [[http://www.yoworks.com/classiq/index.html|Classiq
    by Yamaoka Yasuhiro]] is a libre sans-serif take on Garamond that seems to have
    not attracted the attention it deserves considering its quality: tons of weights
    and three alternative styles. No automatic ligature substitution, annoyingly,
    but that's hardly a deal-breaker.\r\n\r\nUpdate: I notice it's been mentioned
    in this thread already under its previous name Practica."
  created: '2015-01-24 03:53:16'
date: '2012-11-03 21:34:42'
title: A faithful sans version of Garamond?

---
