---
author:
  name: Catharsis
  picture: 124507
body: "Here's the other thing I've been working on recently. It's a decorative humanist
  display font based on a small x-height, a cap height equal to the x-height, and
  extravagant ascenders/descenders that reach beyond that core space by 2 x-heights
  on either side.\r\n\r\nI intend to add a number of swash alternates for both upper-
  and lowercase, easily accessible by way of \"ligatures\" with the rarely-used, yet
  easily-typed \"grave\" and \"asciitilde\" characters.\r\n\r\nI'll be calling the
  font \"Maestrale\", which is an Italian name for one of the eight cardinal winds,
  and happens to mean \"masterly\" as well.\r\n\r\nHere's a little preview:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/maestrale_4327.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/catharsis_5647.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quaestor_5205.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alfa_4768.png]\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is super cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-07 20:10:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "It will be interesting to see this pursued. I do think currently there's
    a weakness in the cap-height premise, since without other adaptations it will
    result in counters that look small compared to the lowercase (compare your /M/
    and /A/ to /a/). \r\nIf you're unwilling to make them taller, I think you might
    have to make them wider or otherwise restructure them to let more counterspace
    in."
  created: '2012-11-07 20:16:40'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ hrant: Thanks.  :)\r\n\r\n@ eliason: I see your point. I quite like the
    texture of the caps as they are now, but as you say, they look a bit finnicky
    among the lowercase. I suppose one could simply use the font in lowercase-only
    and all-caps, but my original intention was to make the letters unisized precisely
    for the purpose of allowing them to be mixed and matched (not necessarily just
    using caps for their intended purposes).  I suppose I should look into restructuring
    them, then. \r\n\r\nWouldn't the font generally only be used at a size where the
    counters of the capitals would be large enough so as not to be a problem? Isn't
    it usual for caps and lowercase in a font to have different grey-values?"
  created: '2012-11-07 20:25:32'
- author:
    name: dhannah1000
  body: Great font! Is it a serif-calligraphy hybrid? I see designers make 'em cool.
  created: '2012-11-07 20:34:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I don't think the size of use matters - my issue with the capital small counters
    is not that they would fill in or anything--just that they looks small <em>relative
    to those of the lowercase</em> (a proportional mismatch that would exist no matter
    what size), so they look a bit, as you said, \"finicky.\" \r\n\r\nCaps and lowercase
    do often receive different treatment weight-wise, but my sense is that, at least
    in recent designs, that will more often take the form like differing stem weights
    <em>precisely to minimize the gray-values difference</em>. At any rate, I think
    in your equal-height type design, and certainly if you want to entertain the possibility
    of mixing case throughout the letter, you should do what you can to get similar
    counter sizes and gray values. "
  created: '2012-11-07 20:56:52'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ dhannah: I'm not really familiar with the official jargon, but intention-wise,
    that certainly fits what I'm trying to do here.\r\n\r\n@ eliason: Here's my first-draft
    list of caps. It looks to me like the |M| and |A| are the worst cases, with maybe
    |X| a close runner-up. I might be able to get away with just making those letters
    wider \u2014 modeling the |M| after the |W|, for instance, and giving the |A|
    a flat roof (though I had that in an earlier attempt at drawing the |A|, and ended
    up liking the triangular one better...).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cap1_5710.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cap2_3575.png]"
  created: '2012-11-07 21:11:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Yep, I think almost none of the other letters will present as much of a concern.
    Maybe /E/ and possibly /F/. Your designs for /R/ and /W/ are intuitively nice
    and wide, sidestepping the issue. Of course you just have to set them all amid
    lowercase and let your eye be your guide. '
  created: '2012-11-07 21:17:13'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, I think I solved the problem with the scrunched-up capitals. It
    was easier than I thought. I did like the individual glyphs for |A| and |M| better
    the way they were before, but they do blend in much better now, which is clearly
    more important.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nucaps_3960.png]\r\n\r\nAlso,
    just for fun, here's a few versions of |g|.  A bit too crazy...? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gs_4156.png]\r\n\r\nOh,
    and this just screams for an |oo| ligature."
  created: '2012-11-10 22:47:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, and infinity-like sign.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-11 01:10:08'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Wow, this is really cool. I like the backslantiness of the round glyphs. I'm
    not sure if your plan to use ligatures to access the alternates is a good idea.
    See this related thread http://typophile.com/node/96159
  created: '2012-12-04 12:18:52'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Dave: I can see the drawback of having a string of symbols that can't be
    changed into another font. I'll just release a second version of the font with
    the same glyphs encoded as stylistic alternates, that should solve all problems.
    As someone who almost exclusively uses typographically unsavvy applications, I
    find the ligature trick a big help.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, I've established the script-|s|,
    which used to be an alternate, as the default |s|. Do you think that works? There's
    always the capital |S| to stand in if you want a more traditional shape. I also
    have four versions of that |\xDF|, but this is probably the nicest one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/heidelberg_4542.png]"
  created: '2012-12-06 10:10:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like that /s/. \r\nWould it make any sense to use OpenType programming
    to revert to the capital /s/ form when it's the first letter in a word?"
  created: '2012-12-06 14:09:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Delish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-06 15:29:31'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "<blockquote>I'll just release a second version of the font with the same
    glyphs encoded as stylistic alternates</blockquote>\r\nGood idea!\r\nI think you're
    on to a good thing with this font. So nice to see something so different from
    everything else. I prefer the new /s/ but I think the old one needs keeping (with
    some tweaking of the curves, which look slightly clumsy as they are now) as an
    alternate. I foresee that your main problem with this is going to be knowing when
    to call it done - it seems the kind of font where thinking up all the different
    possible alternates and swashes is going to be a lot of fun!"
  created: '2012-12-06 16:36:44'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Eliason: I'm trying to make as few decisions for the user as possible.
    In my ligature-based encoding, for example, I don't currently have any automatic
    ligatures for f_f_i and the likes, since those interfere with the user's ability
    to change individual letter shapes. Maybe the \"typographically savvy\" encoding
    should have such ligatures enabled and assume the user knows how to switch them
    off if they don't like them.\r\n\r\nAlso, I kinda like the script |s| even at
    the beginning of words, as in the following image (which also shows off an f_f_i
    quasi-ligature). I'm not familiar with script fonts; is it very uncommon to allow
    script-|s| at the beginning of words?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suffix_5363.png]\r\n\r\n@
    Dave: Yeah, I'm having lots of fun with character alternates, especially ones
    that interact with other characters. I haven't even been through all lowercase
    letters yet, so I certainly can't call it a day anytime soon, but it's going to
    be hard to stop.  ;o)\r\n\r\nIs this |S| better?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_6528.png]"
  created: '2012-12-09 00:58:37'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Yes, that /s/ is certainly less lumpy. May be slightly top heavy and/or leaning
    forward.
  created: '2012-12-10 14:12:44'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "the onset of the new s may be more steep.\r\n\r\nthe whole concept has a
    great potential.\r\nthe g\u2019s are gorgeous.\r\nSALVE"
  created: '2012-12-13 22:01:39'
- author:
    name: mch
    picture: 126272
  body: Fantastic - I look forward to its release!
  created: '2013-01-21 07:43:57'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Having fun playing around with alternative umlauts designs...  oh, and I
    made a crazy-ass alternative |m|. You don't have to use it if you don't like it.
    \ ;o)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/uml_6194.png]\r\n\r\nNow I kinda
    want to start a goth band called G\xF6tzentum so I can use that wordmark....  :P"
  created: '2013-02-03 00:31:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I like the inventiveness, though it's hard for me not to see that /m/ as /sn/.
  created: '2013-02-03 03:19:23'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Yes, I can see the problem. It's really only an alternate though, so it can't
    hurt.\r\n\r\nI've added some starting and ending swashes, and more ligatures...
    but I'll have to stop soon. There are some lowercase letters with no alternates
    yet (|r| comes to mind), which needs to be amended, but I think I'm going to leave
    the uppercase be. Maybe a tailed |R G K A X Q|, and that's it. As I see it, this
    font will mostly be used as an uncial anyway...\r\n\r\nAnd here's the font's nametag!
    \ :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/maestrale_6553.png]"
  created: '2013-02-03 19:00:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The classiest orgy I've ever seen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 19:33:54'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "the tittles on the o in \u201Cg\xF6tzentum\u201D read as an \u201Cn\u201D.
    \r\n\r\n\u2013 mae\u017Ftrale:\r\nthe onstroke of the m is mechanical and illogical.
    it ought to link to the upper onset of the first stroke.\r\nthe a\u2019s are great.\r\nthe
    \u017F_t  is very nice.\r\n\u2013 Ever thought of the round r?\r\nthe offstroke
    of the final e is perfect.\r\n\r\n> The classiest orgy I've ever seen.\r\nCome
    on."
  created: '2013-02-03 21:23:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I meant it as a compliment!\r\nAlthough I have to admit that one of my very
    few references is this gem:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/other/typorgy.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 22:11:08'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Hallo Andreas,\r\n\r\nthat particular umlaut recalls the S\xFCtterlin |e|,
    which is the origin of the umlaut. \r\n\r\nOnstroke of the |m|: I currently only
    have a set of four offstrokes that I compose with letters by simple juxtaposition
    and overlapping.  I didn't use an upper-level onstroke for |m| because the one
    I have is designed for crossbars (like on |t|, or on the family of letter variants
    designed to ligate with a crossbar), so it wouldn't fit the slanted top.  I suppose
    I should make a set of slanted on/offstrokes for that purpose...  though unlike
    the horizontal ones, they're going to be very sensitive to spacing. So far, I
    only have glyphs with built-in on/offstrokes for |a|, |e|, and accented variants
    thereof.\r\n\r\n(That said, I still rather like the |m| above. The upward swash
    is a welcome counterpart to the downward one at the end of the word. And calligraphy
    does involve a lot of pen-lifting after all.)\r\n\r\nRound |r|: Funny that you
    should say that \u2014 I'm just working on a round |r| as we speak.  :)  It's
    not a modern script-style |r|, though, but rather based on the carolingian minuscule
    one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ora_5122.png]"
  created: '2013-02-03 22:26:31'
- author:
    name: Bogdan Oancea
  body: "Beautiful font, but are you sure the beak of \"regular\" lc |a| has to go
    over the left extrema point of its counter?\r\n(And I agree with Eliason about
    that alternate |m| and, besides, it is so symmetrically centered to the middle
    stem that it looks out of place next to |o| and the other letters with their slight
    left-leaning stress).\r\n\r\nOther than that, like I said, it's really beautiful\u2014congratulations.
    If you happen to make Romanian diacritics for it, I'll give further opinion about
    them.  :)"
  created: '2013-02-04 05:43:04'
- author:
    name: Lasko Dzurovski
    picture: 115244
  body: NIIIIICE WORK! I like it.
  created: '2013-02-04 16:45:38'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Bogdan: As usual, the |a| is one of my favorite letters... and I think
    here that beak needs its length, lest it be perceived as a serif. \r\n\r\nI do
    have the Romanian diacritics, and they're even included in a few of the stylistic
    alternate series. Below, you can see their compatibility with the initial and
    terminal swashes, as well as with the one-story |a|.\r\n\r\nOh, and I have been
    taught about the need for comma accents rather than cedillas, don't worry.  ;o)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rom_4141.png]"
  created: '2013-02-05 00:10:40'
- author:
    name: Bogdan Oancea
  body: "OK, except for some rare special cases, the comma-below should be smaller
    than the regular comma (sometimes even down to ~50%), and in this case also positioned
    a bit closer to the letters; the circumflex is too tall\u2014bringing it down
    closer to the same \"normal\" height like the breve would be better.  The breve
    is perfectly proportioned and placed, although IMO making it stray just a bit
    from perfect symmetry would make it match the style of the font better (not to
    mention looking a little less \"devilish\" :D ).\r\n\r\n(About comma-below vs.
    cedilla\u2014good!)  :)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rom_4141_6505.png]"
  created: '2013-02-05 08:08:51'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "@ Bogdan: The circumflex and comma accent are deliberately designed to use
    up a lot of vertical space so as to fit the concept of the font (ascenders and
    descenders extend up to 2 x-heights beyond the x-height). I didn't do that for
    the breve, dot accent, or ring accent because I couldn't make it look good.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/theatre_6199.png]\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    though, I just had the idea of making yet another stylistic set for Maestrale,
    focused on ultra-short ascenders and descenders. That should include letter-hugging
    diacritics like the one you drew.  :)"
  created: '2013-02-05 11:08:52'
- author:
    name: Bogdan Oancea
  body: "OK, got it\u2014seems like good reasoning for an exception to the rules  :)"
  created: '2013-02-06 05:26:11'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, I made a chubby, x-height-hugging version of Maestrale, lacking
    most of the full version's alternates and swashes. I'm thinking of releasing this
    one as a free teaser font under the name of Maestrale Baby. Whaddya think?  ;o)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/baby_4534.png]"
  created: '2013-02-06 15:06:17'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I've gotten some persistent feedback (mostly from my parents ;o) that the
    tiny capitals look weird. Now, I wanted the caps to be freely interspersable with
    the lowercase to make mixed-case texts, but in principle I could use the small
    caps for that functionality... \r\n\r\nSo as an experiment, I moved all my previous
    caps from Maestrale Baby into small-caps slots and enlarged all my caps by 25%.
    I rather like the new proportions, and they really do feel more like caps now.
    \ However, all the stroke weights also scaled up by 25% in the process. I know
    caps are supposed to be drawn heavier than LC to compensate for their greater
    space requirements, but perhaps this is too much? I feel that the caps currently
    stand out rather distinctly by their blackness. Then again, it's not unusual for
    caps in calligraphy to be eye-catching.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think? Should I lighten
    them up a little?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lc_6212.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sc_4317.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/c2sc_5997.png]"
  created: '2013-02-08 09:07:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Yes, you'll definitely have to lighten them some. I like the size though!
  created: '2013-02-08 14:20:55'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, I lightened them up quite considerably (to only 110% the lowercase
    weight). I like it much better that way!  :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nucaps_5166.png]"
  created: '2013-02-08 16:46:52'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, I've done some spacing and kerning on the Baby version (surprisingly
    easy with Glyphs!), added a few more variants (such as an italic-style |k|), and
    encoded a few stylistic sets (such as one that replaces the |a| and |e| in smallcaps
    mode with the lowercase versions, for a nice mixed-case look).\r\n\r\nI'm starting
    to like this version well enough to decouple it a bit from Maestrale and let it
    stand on its own two serifs. I'm thinking of renaming it accordingly (maybe to
    \"Misurina\" or \"Dolomiti\"?). My current plan is still to release it for free,
    though, and to hope that will generate a lot of interest for the commercial Maestrale
    (or even for Octant).\r\n\r\nWhaddya think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poster0_postcard_5121.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poster1_postcard_4496.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poster2_postcard_5799.png]"
  created: '2013-02-11 01:42:43'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: In my opinion, releasing it for free is a bad idea. While it may well generate
    interest in the commercial version, I think it's far more likely users will just
    use the free version and not feel the need for the paid one. Both fonts look great,
    and they will find their market. Just give it time! I personally like Maestrale
    Baby as a name, it's cute! I don't think it's different enough from Maestrale
    to warrant a different name, and if the two fonts are sold together, with a discount
    for getting both, it would add to the value in the minds of potential buyers.
    I think if you get the price point right, you'll have a big hit on your hands.
    How about 40$ each, $50 for both, half price introductory discount? It's a balancing
    act, but selling too cheap (and especially giving away for free) gives the impression
    that you're not as proud of it as you should be. Under $20 and I'd be thinking
    there must be something wrong with it for it to be that cheap!
  created: '2013-02-11 02:42:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think Dave's 100% right.
  created: '2013-02-11 05:26:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I <em>really</em> want to believe Dave. And I used to, 100%. But then came
    Jos Buivenga. Does the freemium model really have no place in type?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-11 05:33:35'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Thanks for your insights, guys!\r\n\r\nI lack the experience to judge what
    will work best, but at least there is some data for freebie fonts generating a
    lot of interest. My cruddy freefonts from a while back have been downloaded on
    the order of 40,000 times in the past few years! I might not have made money with
    them, but they did get <em>used</em>. I miss that aspect of type design.  :P\r\n\r\nThe
    two fonts are quite different in scope, with Maestrale Pro spanning more than
    twice the vertical space of Baby and featuring lots of swashes, whereas Baby has
    almost none. Are you sure people would use Baby when they have their eyes on Pro?"
  created: '2013-02-11 09:42:52'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "I just don't know how much free fonts actually publicise the paid versions.
    Especially on MyFonts, customers are finding the free fonts by just searching
    for free fonts, probably downloading everything they find, and ignoring the few
    paid equivalents (I have two fonts that are free, and they get downloaded loads.
    One of them is just a shadow addition to another paid font, and on its own is
    virtually unusable. It still gets downloaded. And many, many times, I see the
    same 'customer' downloading them over and over again. This is why I think they're
    just downloading everything free on the site, not even looking particularly at
    what they're getting). I think Jos is an exception, but I still wonder if Museo
    is successful because of, rather than in spite of, the free weights. One thing
    I do know - you can test the waters by offering both as paid fonts, and if you
    get little response, make Baby free, and see what happens. If you start with Baby
    free, you'll never know if you could have had the same response (or better) if
    it was paid.\r\nI know the frustration of slow selling fonts, and the temptation
    to make them free just so they get used is there, but I think selling one license
    is better than giving away thousands. For all the use your free fonts get, how
    much of that would you say is good design? I personally would rather a few people,
    who really wanted my font, bought it and used it well, than a few thousand, who
    only wanted it in the first place because it was free, used it at all. Ultimately,
    though, it's up to each individual designer how they approach this issue. This
    is just my opinion, and I haven't got enough experience to know anything with
    certainty!"
  created: '2013-02-12 04:03:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think a bigger problem than the mindless zombie downloaders (who actually
    don't harm anybody, except maybe themselves :-) is the negative perception that
    free (or very cheap) stuff engenders among the more serious potential customers.\r\n\r\nSo
    what I wonder is, how many people ever think for example: \"I'm not going to buy
    any of Buivenga's fonts since he gives some of his stuff away for free so he can't
    be that good.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-12 05:29:26'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I run two single fonts on MF for $0 and I increasingly wonder if that is
    a good thing to do. An impact of the free loads onto the sales is literally untraceable.
    To get your product known, I rather do introductory offerings, 20% for 4 weeks
    or so.\r\nMaestrale is a very original design which stands out from the crowd.
    It will get noted by those who are decent enough to pay for a good buy."
  created: '2013-02-12 11:22:16'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I just checked out the live sales map at MyFonts (http://www.myfonts.com/fontmap/),
    and noticed a few font names popped up frequently; in particular Museo (in its
    different variants) and Fenix. I checked, and sure enough, Fenix is a free font,
    released in May 2012 but still downloaded like crazy.\r\n\r\n@ Dave: I'm not sure
    I agree with your sentiment. Of course I'd like one good designer to use my font.
    I would <em>also</em> like for thousands of amateurs, non-designers, and casual
    computer users to use my font. Now, I know from my own experience than any kind
    of payment will block most casual users from getting font. However, there is nothing
    at all that stops a professional designer from using a free font, if they like
    it...  shouldn't a pro know better than to judge a font by its price tag, rather
    than by its look and feel and functionality?\r\n\r\nAlso, how does MyFonts feel
    about permanently changing the price of a payfont to zero? Is that even possible,
    legally?\r\n\r\n@ Andreas: I just checked MyFonts, and saw Andron Freefont is
    one of your free ones. Nice! I downloaded that one quite a while ago. I have yet
    to download any payfont from MyFonts. Does that make me a zombie? ;o)"
  created: '2013-02-12 16:02:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd heard that MyFonts does not include free fonts in their rankings. Is
    that false?\r\n\r\nYou can't be a zombie, because you <em>make</em> fonts. Zombies
    just eat them (and don't even bother digesting).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-12 16:25:25'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "<So what I wonder is, how many people ever think for example: \"I'm not going
    to buy any of Buivenga's fonts since he gives some of his stuff away for free
    so he can't be that good.\">\r\n\r\nMust be the same people who look at the sample
    tastings at Costco and Zabar's and say \"I'm not going to buy that because they
    give some away for free.\""
  created: '2013-02-14 17:18:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, but that's a pretty weak analogy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-14 17:32:29'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "After some feedback from the TypeDrawers forum, I'm thinking of releasing
    Baby in two cuts, one of which contains the calligraphic elements inherited from
    Maestrale (such as the curved |d|) whereas the other sticks to more consistent
    serif forms:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/versiona_3898.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/versionb_6522.png]\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, I also made some changes that apply to both cuts, such as giving
    consistent terminals to |f c r y roman-s|.\r\n\r\nMaybe the \"sober\" version
    would also profit from a serif-bottomed |l|?\r\n\r\nOh, and if I'm to release
    this in two versions, perhaps Misurina is a better choice of names after all;
    I wouldn't want to have to use a three-word name."
  created: '2013-02-28 20:45:26'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Alright, I've finally managed to wrap up my work on Maestrale and submit
    it to MyFonts. It should be available for purchase by the end of the week.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mposter02_small_4569.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mposter03_small_6361.png]\r\n\r\nAside
    from the default version that uses ligatures with rarely-used but easily-typed
    characters to render stylistic alternates accessible, I've also made a \"Pro\"
    version in which the same glyphs are stored as stylistic sets (.ssXX). The Pro
    version also includes a lot of contextual alternates and proper ligatures that
    aim to resolve any collisions in plain text, thus it doubles as the \"beginner
    version\" of Maestrale.\r\n\r\nI'm furthermore offering two cuts of Maestrale
    Baby for free. Maestrale Baby Boy aims for a \"roman serif\" look whereas Girl
    has an \"upright italic\" flavor.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mposter09_small_3760.png]\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2013-07-15 14:24:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Beautiful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-15 14:59:43'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Thanks!\r\n\r\nJust dropping two images of Boy and Girl here for easy linking:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/boy_5688.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girl_4481.png]"
  created: '2013-07-15 15:01:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just tweeted about it. I'll do so again when it launches.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-15 15:17:49'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Neat! Hope you didn't promise too much...  I might possibly rethink the whole
    \"free font\" part. Perhaps I'll just give out the upright cursive for free, and
    charge $20 or so for the roman and the italic.\r\n\r\nI'm also following Stephen
    Coles' suggestion of calling the stubby fonts Maestrale Text rather than Maestrale
    Baby. Oh, and he suggested round points for the Roman, which works quite well:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/round_6690.png]"
  created: '2013-07-15 17:39:10'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Oh, and I really like the look of the italic, which is just a slanted version
    of the cursive:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italic_5229.png]"
  created: '2013-07-15 17:40:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If I knew it was going to be free I'd be less excited.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-15 17:54:14'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: Alright, alright, it seems I'm the only one who likes the idea of a free teaser
    font...  I guess I'll start out asking money for all of them, and making Cursive
    free if the sales should go badly.  :P
  created: '2013-07-15 20:34:58'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Huh. A week after release, it looks like Maestrale is at the same time my
    most critically acclaimed and my least selling font. What gives?\r\n\r\nI might
    just have to give the freemium model a try after all."
  created: '2013-07-24 22:24:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Welcome to cultural contribution.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-25 00:00:38'
date: '2012-11-07 20:01:33'
title: Maestrale

---
