---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "http://www.typefacedesign.org/2012/\r\n\r\nThe balance of quality and diversity
  makes me smile. Physically.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Brasilica looks interesting.
  created: '2012-11-14 18:39:11'
- author:
    name: David Vereschagin
    picture: 122439
  body: "Nari Black captures the current typographic zeitgeist. And the regular italic
    has the interesting idea of doing away with the serifs.\r\n\r\nDavid\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-14 18:50:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I like Dr Jeykll and Ms Hyde.\r\nKind of a serif interpretation of Excoffon\u2019s
    \u201Ctop heavy\u201D idea, with a bit of Val Fullard\u2019s \u201CScience\u201D.\r\n(Sorry,
    but everything reminds me of something else, even in a quite original design like
    this.)\r\nI\u2019m pleasantly surprised there are no readability claims for this
    top-heaviness!\r\nMy only criticism is that its upright Greek looks like italic,
    when on the same page as Latin Roman."
  created: '2012-11-14 19:00:13'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Nick: Isn't that a basic description of \"Classical\"?  Roman and Greek ...\r\n\r\n
    - Herb"
  created: '2012-11-14 23:04:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not any more:\r\nhttp://www.parachute.gr/typefaces/allfonts/regal-display-pro#Greek"
  created: '2012-11-14 23:33:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I'm glad you like Dr Jeykll and Ms Hyde because I do too except I can't
    be too objective about it since I was fortunate to consult on its Armenian component.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>its
    upright Greek looks like italic, when on the same page as Latin Roman.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOnly
    if you look at it through Latin eyes. And the alternative is worse. The Armenian
    for example might seem even more \"Italic\" than the Greek, but to me it's exactly
    right, and making it upright would ruin it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 04:42:14'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "My favorite is Martha. In the regular weight it seems to be a very clear
    and readable typeface.\r\nQuadrat, Can you offer a few words of explanation about
    the \"current typographic zeitgeist\" for the unhip? Thank you."
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Vereschagin
      picture: 122439
    body: "Yes: Chunky slab serifs and egyptians are trendy right now (actually all
      new takes on slabs are) kind of in counterpoint to skinny sans serifs which
      are also way in but may be outstaying their welcome. (Work on my own slab serif
      is languishing and I probably won\u2019t be able to release it until after the
      current trend has passed!)\r\n\r\nDavid\r\n"
    created: '2012-11-15 15:59:10'
  created: '2012-11-15 13:20:11'
- author:
    name: Rafael Dietzsch
    picture: 110271
  body: "I agree with Hrant. \r\n\r\nAlso, I would like to leave a comment. Regal
    is interesting, but I don't think it's a model to be blindly followed for the
    Greek, as there are other ways of doing it upright. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 16:41:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Regal: I enthusiastically cast a vote for it in the Display category of Granshan
    2010* but I can't say I think much of the text cut. For one thing it's much easier
    to find occasions to use Latinized type for display than it is for text.\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.granshan.org/index.php?lang=eng&mode=competition_2010\r\n\r\nRafael,
    nice to see you here!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 17:50:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The Greek of Dr & Ms is rather self-indulgently lively (if this is the designer\u2019s
    idea, rather than faculty\u2019s), when the Latin is so much more disciplined.\r\nThere
    should be greater consistency between Latin and Greek, if one is going to follow
    the \u201CLatin\u201D principle of Regular and Italic styles\u2014and Arabic numerals.\r\nIf
    the Latin of a face is going to have Roman and Italic of markedly different construction,
    then so too should the Greek. In for a penny, in for a pound.\r\nThis means that
    the traditional Greek \u201Cscriptyness\u201D must be deployed to the Italic,
    because if it\u2019s used in the Regular, unless it\u2019s simply a slanted version
    of the Regular, the Italic is painted into a corner\u2014and that\u2019s exactly
    what\u2019s happened in Dr & Ms, for despite alternate forms of beta, theta, phi
    and (somewhat) kappa, it\u2019s basically a slightly condensed, more evenly slanted
    version of the Regular. There isn\u2019t the amount of distinction between styles
    that exists in the Latin. \r\n\r\nThere\u2019s no need to have the Greek Regular
    characters with such varied inclination, some leaning forward (omicron?!), some
    back. Even in the archetypically Greek Plain (Monotype 90), the diversely stressed
    letters have balance, and some, such as gamma, are dead upright. So there is no
    Greek imperative for gamma and nu in Dr & Ms to be leaning to the right.\r\nEven
    if the intention was to avoid Vassiliou-style modernism/internationalism/latinism,
    it would have been possible to maintain traditionally \u201Cscripty\u201D Greek
    letter forms and stress, without being quite so baroquely slanted.\r\nEither that,
    or Hellenize the Latin according to the same principle!\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s really,
    really hard to accomodate the traditional authenticity of Latin, Cyrillic, and
    Greek in the same typeface with a strong measure of formal consistency between
    the scripts. To fall back on traditional conventions for the separate scripts
    is ultimately to shirk the design challenge.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, this is a minor
    quibble\u2014it\u2019s an awesome fun face with beautifully drawn glyphs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 21:42:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The perception of text depends on context; letterforms don't exist in some
    formal vacuum, especially for a text face. So the Greek might not be disproportionately
    lively if the basic nature of Greek -and what readers of Greek are used to seeing-
    is more lively than Latin (which in fact it is).\r\n\r\nMy favorite example is
    serifs in Armenian: if you put them where they would be in a Latin font you end
    up with something ugly and harder to read.\r\n\r\nA more accessible example is
    Trajan: making a formally congruent Cyrillic version cannot result in the same
    flavor because readers of Cyrillic don't have the same background.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>If
    the Latin of a face is going to have Roman and Italic of markedly different construction,
    then so too should the Greek.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's not so simple - it depends
    again on context. Just because you make a style of type for a writing system (Italic)
    doesn't mean it's used identically. Again using Armenian as an example: we have
    a floating emphasis mark that's placed on a vowel to emphasis a word, so we don't
    use Italic the same way as Latin does, which means making an Italic for Armenian
    the way you make one for Latin is just bad design.\r\n\r\nNow, if Greek does use
    Italic very similarly to the way it's used in Latin then I agree that the degree
    (or more accurately, the flavor) of divergence should be comparable.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Hellenize
    the Latin according to the same principle!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIdeally you go
    both ways, like in my Nour&Patria.  :-)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>To fall back on traditional
    conventions for the separate scripts is ultimately to shirk the design challenge.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nActually
    I think Latinizing is much easier than doing what Papassissa has attempted. Latinization
    is like a parlor game, devoid of insight and sensitivity. And I don't consider
    myself a traditionalist - I just believe in using ideas that work no matter where
    they come from.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 22:32:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sure, Latinizing is easy if you make nu = /v and eta = /n.\r\nBut I\u2019m
    not talking about that.\r\nThe quaint scripty treatmentment of gamma and nu in
    Dr & Ms is too much about making each letter a nice Greek glyph, not about the
    typeface as a whole. That doesn\u2019t mean I\u2019m advocating they should look
    like /y and /n.\r\n\r\nWhy, in this day and age of stylistic diversity and internationalism,
    should new Greek typefaces be chained to an historic pen-driven model? I would
    have thought you would support that position Hrant, based on your criticisms of
    chirography in type design!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 23:37:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "No disrespect to Papassissa (the design is indeed lively and well done),
    but my first thought when I saw Dr Jekyll and Miss Hyde was \u201C<a href=\"http://www.stormtype.com/family-anselm-serif-pro.html\">Franti\u0161ek
    \u0160torm</a> does <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/3ip/bonsai/\">Bonsai</a>.\u201D\r\n\r\nBut,
    like Nick, the older I get the more everything reminds me of something else.\r\n\r\nNice
    job."
  created: '2012-11-16 12:28:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You want close?\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/pampatype/arlt/\r\nBut when
    I pointed that out to Elena she said she'd never heard of it - and Lo Celso is
    a Reading grad! Apparently at Reading they try to reduce exposure to specific
    precedents; I guess that makes sense educationally.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-16 14:46:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If it\u2019s forbidden to \u201CLatinize\u201D Greek by straightening it
    out and adding serifs, then why not, if one is starting with a Greek design and
    adding Latin, and wants to create a harmonious multi-script serifed typeface,
    \u201CHellenize\u201D the Latin component by removing serifs and loosening it
    up?\r\n\r\nWhile not the archetypal antiqua model, it would be quite acceptable
    to conservative taste.\r\n\r\nThere are several semi-serif designs like this,
    such as Puyfoulhoux\u2019 <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/presencetypo/cicero/\">Cicero</a>.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rafael Dietzsch
      picture: 110271
    body: Why don't you try it yourself?
    created: '2012-11-16 17:30:21'
  created: '2012-11-16 15:21:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, your last two posts elevate the discussion nicely... More soon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-16 17:34:21'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "Maybe the Greek is the \"Dr. Jekyll\"?\r\n\r\nAlso, FWIW, I was pretty unimpressed
    with it on the page Hrant linked to, but upon opening up the specimen I got a
    whole other impression of it.  Maybe the designer could change the name to make
    it look more appealing, although Dr. Jekyll and Ms. Hyde is such a specific name
    (not to mention a good description of the font's ideas) its hard to think what
    other names it could be changed to."
  created: '2012-11-16 19:16:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why don\u2019t you try it yourself?</em>\r\n\r\nI have no plans for any
    new Greek types at the moment.\r\nThose I\u2019ve produced so far started out
    as extensions to Latin designs.\r\nUnless I get a commission to produce a Pan-European
    typeface, it\u2019s unlikely I will do any more Greek fonts in the near future."
  created: '2012-11-16 19:49:07'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm quite intrigued by the cursive devanagari in Pooja Saxena's [[http://www.typefacedesign.org/resources/A5specimen/2012/PoojaSaxena_Cawnpore_Specimen.pdf|Cawnpore]].
    Has there been an attempt before to design a cursive companion to a regular devanagari
    text face, not as a display face on its own?\r\n\r\nOne of the MATD typefaces
    in 2011, Aaron Bell's [[http://www.typefacedesign.org/resources/A5specimen/2011/AaronBell_Saja_specimen.pdf|Saja]],
    included an attempt at a hangul (Korean alphabet) italic. I actually tried to
    talk Aaron out of it since there is no tradition of pairing a slanted (or indeed
    any type of) cursive hangul with the regular, and I wasn't convinced that one
    could be successful. Seeing the result hasn't changed my mind, though I applaud
    the willingness to experiment."
  created: '2012-11-17 13:59:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'It was interesting for me to read Nick''s comments on the DrJ*MsH before
    actually looking at the specimen. I think there is a matter of perception here,
    in which I know my own is influenced by the fact that almost all the Greek text
    I encounter is either written or typeset in traditional minuscule-derived styles.
    When I look at Elena''s Latin and Greek side by side, I don''t get the same sense
    as Nick of the Greek being too lively by comparison. Rather, I think there is
    a tension within both scripts between very lively letters (Latin a and Greek lambda)
    and much more constrained letters (Latin g and Greek pi). The Greek looks to me
    simply like a fairly conventionally structured type, and its problems are not
    of style but of proportion: several letters are noticeably narrow and disturb
    the (sorry, Hrant) rhythm. The beta, gamma, pi and upsilon stand out in this regard.'
  created: '2012-11-20 19:30:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My \uFB01rst impression, before I had a chance to read any of the text, was
    of the whole page.\r\n\r\nIt seemed obvious to me that the ductus is quite different
    between the two \u201Cupright\u201D DrJ*MsH scripts, and that the Greek is far
    busier. \r\n\r\nHere\u2019s a comparison of the DrJ*MsH specimen with the same
    text set in the typeface I\u2019m working on at the moment, which I\u2019d like
    to think demonstrates that it is possible to achieve some measure of ductus consistency
    between scripts, without horrendously Latinizing the Greek. The Greek could be
    slightly heavier en masse, despite the same stem widths, perhaps it could be tightened
    up a little. (Apologies for showing my own work, I would have liked to have used
    one of Panos Vassiliou\u2019s faces, but don\u2019t have a licence for any of
    them.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Greeks_4076.jpg]"
  created: '2012-11-20 21:15:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Saying that the ductus is different and that the Greek looks busier than
    the Latin seems to me different than saying that one is livelier than the other.
    To me the statements 'is has a different ductus' and 'is busier' are simply descriptions
    of the Greek script vis \xE0 vis Latin.\r\n\r\nAs I said, this is a matter of
    perception and hence also of experience."
  created: '2012-11-20 22:05:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It is also a matter of history, philosophy, and where Greece is concerned,
    politics.\r\nAs I reason, scripts are not ductus-speci\uFB01c.\r\nWhen Futura
    was introduced in 1929, it introduced a new ductus\u2014the geometric\u2014into
    the world.\r\nThis was taken up by both Greek and Latin script foundries.\r\nIt
    was even occasionally used in Little England!\r\nOlympia, from 1939:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Olympia_3430.png]"
  created: '2012-11-20 22:37:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>As I reason, scripts are not ductus-speci\uFB01c.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, but
    styles are, and scripts develop distinct styles that, in particular cases, inform
    the normative shapes of letters in ways that make them difficult or simply unconvincing
    to produce in styles borrowed from other scripts and characterised by different
    ductus.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nLooking at the comparison images you post, I find the
    relative colour of the DrJ*MsH Greek and Latin to be better harmonised that your
    design, which to my eye is too Latinised, although not 'horrendously' so."
  created: '2012-11-21 02:09:32'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Nick, how did you get the font?
  created: '2012-11-21 03:15:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I didn\u2019t, I did a screen grab from the specimen pdf, and matched the
    setting."
  created: '2012-11-21 06:47:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026scripts develop distinct styles that, in particular cases, inform
    the normative shapes of letters \u2026</em>\r\n\r\nHow does one determine the
    norm?\r\nIs it the statistical norm in number of published typefaces, or in published
    usage?\r\nAnd in publications, which ones? In academia or commerce? Advertising
    or design? High or low end of the market? Per publication, or per sales volume?
    And why should the norm be immutable?\r\n\r\nStyles don\u2019t just happen, people
    make them.\r\nGerry Leonidas has done a spectacular job, through his work in consultation
    to Western foundries, speaking and writing, and through pedagogy at Reading, in
    establishing a certain kind of ductus as the norm for new Greek-script typeface
    designs.\r\n\r\nHowever, to me that norm appears to be a conservative, somewhat
    academic stereotype, and not something that I, as a progressive, indie-foundry,
    non-Greek type designer, feel comfortable in appropriating. \r\n\r\nIn these days
    of a plurality of type producers and an emergent culture of indigenous Greek and
    Cyrillic type designers, Latinization is not the issue it once was. Once, it may
    have been possible to consider it as a form of asymmetric internationalism\u2014i.e.
    industrial neo-colonialism, but now there are plenty of diverse resources, including
    indigenous, to enable non-Latin-script art directors and designers to determine
    the shape of their own culture\u2019s typography. That makes for some interesting
    options: for example, in a contemporary sans serif do they opt for the \u201Clatinized\u201D
    (e.g. eta=/n, nu=/v) PF DIN by Panos Vassiliou for his Athens foundry Parachute,
    or Hoe\uFB02er and Frere-Jones\u2019 Whitney, with its Leonidas-attested authenticity
    (eta with descender etc.), for a New York foundry?"
  created: '2012-11-23 19:18:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The normative shapes of letters are those that reflect consistent practice
    by competent writers over time. Normative doesn't mean fixed, but it does mean
    that when you see a lowercase alpha you know that it is a lowercase alpha, regardless
    of the particularities of style, weight, size, etc. I'm not talking about statistical
    norms in published typefaces, but about these basic recognisable shapes of letters
    that evolve in the maturation of the written script. There is, to be sure, a statistical
    element to this: a coalescing of practice such that the normative shape of the
    uppercase A can be said to be two diagonals meeting at an apex with a horizontal
    crossbar <em>despite the variety of forms in writing and type that violate that
    norm.</em> If you look at old Byzantine coins and seals -- as I've had a lot of
    opportunity to do over the past couple of years -- you'll see the Greek script
    in a state of flux, including situations in which uncial alpha cannot be distinguished
    visually from lambda, and in which the H glyph might represent either the vowel
    eta or the consonant nu, but we've long since established norms for the individual
    letters, and avoiding confusion is a strong motivator in the development of such
    norms.\r\n\r\nMy point with regard to the relationship of distinct styles to the
    normative shapes of letters is not that certain ductus patterns are norms in themselves
    but that the application of these patterns within specific styles at particularly
    historical moments influence what shapes become norms. The lowercase lambda is
    a good example: this is a shape that historically developed in styles employing
    a ductus that resulted in a short heavy diagonal from the lower left and a longer
    thin diagonal on the right with heavy terminals. That is the shape of the letter,
    and if you change the ductus while producing the same strokes, you end up with
    what I consider an unconvincing shape: simply put, it doesn't look like a lambda
    to me.\r\n\r\nI note that in your new Greek you maintain the traditional ductus
    of the gamma and lambda, even though it violates what you are doing elsewhere
    in the design. Why? I presume it is because you recognise that the normative shapes
    of these letters are strongly influenced by how they were written by Byzantine
    scribes, and such is the nature of those shapes that they look wrong if you apply
    a different ductus. That is my point."
  created: '2012-11-23 19:46:42'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: So Nick, did you actually type all that greek out?  Seems like that would
    have taken forever with a latin keyboard and operating system.
  created: '2012-11-23 20:29:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Ryan, you can easily switch between keyboard layouts on most modern systems.
    The standard Greek keyboard layout is mostly modelled on the Latin one -- A =
    Alpha, B = Beta, etc. --, so is very easy to learn to use.
  created: '2012-11-23 20:49:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> Gerry Leonidas has done a spectacular job, through his work in consultation
    to Western foundries, speaking and writing, and through pedagogy at Reading, in
    establishing a certain kind of ductus as the norm for new Greek-script typeface
    designs.\r\n\r\nThat's an odd view. I wouldn't say Gerry has 'established' the
    ductus. Say rather his breadth and depth of study of historic sources demonstrates
    that an authentically Greek idiom does not have to imitate a Latin pen angle or
    writing speed and should probably not appropriate typically Latin styling. Gerry
    fosters an awareness of that idiom but students' design choices are respected
    without any hint of conservatism on Gerry's part. My unresolved attempts at Greek
    were aiming at some kind of middle ground, something I hope to explore further
    some day."
  created: '2012-11-23 21:12:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No Ryan, I copied the text from the specimen PDF and pasted into an InDesign
    document.\r\n\r\nJohn: <em>I presume it is because you recognise that the normative
    shapes of these letters are strongly influenced by how they were written by Byzantine
    scribes, and such is the nature of those shapes that they look wrong if you apply
    a different ductus. </em>\r\n\r\nIf by ductus we\u2019re referring to the angle
    of a broad-nibbed pen, certainly I followed the conventional lambda and chi, however,
    not because of the scribes who started the convention, but because I\u2019m familiar
    with it from fonts. I wasn\u2019t trying to produce a pointedly unconventional
    face in that respect.\r\n\r\nI \uFB01nd it strange that pen writing plays such
    a strong role in the rationale for the conservative Greek idiom, Ben mentions
    it too.\r\n\r\nThe \u201Ccertain kind of ductus\u201D I\u2019m talking about is
    perhaps easier to see in sans types, more about shape than stress.\r\nI provided
    optional forms of many characters in Figgins Sans, via a Stylistic Set.\r\nI don\u2019t
    see why the \u201Cproper\u201D form has to be busy and fussy, why it can\u2019t
    be simpli\uFB01ed, without losing its orthographic integrity. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Greeks_5533.png]\r\n\r\nBen:
    <em>I wouldn't say Gerry has 'established' the ductus.</em>\r\n\r\nGerry has been
    a tireless advocate of proper Greek, across the type industry. You can see that
    not just in MATD students\u2019 work and his TDC seminar, but also in the foundry
    faces he has consulted on, including the ClearType fonts and Whitney. He has been
    the go-to guy for Western type designers who want to do Greek right, highly in\uFB02uential."
  created: '2012-11-23 22:23:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>I don\u2019t see why the \u201Cproper\u201D form has to be busy
    and fussy, why it can\u2019t be simpli\uFB01ed, without losing its orthographic
    integrity.</em>\r\n\r\nIf course letters can be simplified, and the result will
    be a simplified style of typeface. At its extreme, one ends up with Gridnik, and
    I'd argue that there is a continuum of 'orthographic integrity' that ends up in
    something that may be decipherable but is in effect a new orthography. Your simplified
    Greek forms in Figgins Sans are somewhere along that continuum, and my objection
    to them isn't an objection to simplification per se but that they are wrong for
    the typeface style. You didn't simplify the Latin. The Figgins Sans lowercase
    a has its exit stroke, the g has its curved ear and nicely swung oldstyle form,
    the y has its hook. Figgins Sans is not a simplified typeface style, so the Greek
    simplifications simply look out of place to me."
  created: '2012-11-25 18:17:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You\u2019re overstating the simplicity of Figgins Sans\u2019 Greek, and understating
    the simplicity of its Latin.\r\n\r\nHere is what a much more simpli\uFB01ed Greek
    looks like (above, with Figgins below).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Greeks_4530.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here is the Latin of Figgins compared with a busier sans, Benton Sans. Figgins
    Sans is quite calm, due to the roundness of its curved letters, and the fact that
    most of its terminals are vertical or horizontal.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sans_6114.png]\r\n\r\nCertainly,
    Figgins Sans has an elaborate /a, but it matches alpha; and its binocular /g matches
    similar shapes in beta, delta and xi.\r\n\r\nI disagree with your method of assessing
    the busyness of a typeface in a particular script according to its relationship
    with the \u201Cnormative\u201D style of that script. A straight line is a straight
    line, whatever script it\u2019s in.\r\n\r\nOne reason for the popularity of Olympia
    and similar Futura derivatives was that art directors looking for a consistent
    reductive geometric effect in a modernist layout appreciated that that quality
    appeared in both its upper and lower case. If the Futurization of U&lc text was
    as acceptable in the middle of the previous century to Greek readers as it was
    to Western readers, why is it such an issue now?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-26 07:51:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/260768704093_5633.jpg]\r\nAn example
    of Greek modernism, an album jacket from 1969.\r\nAnd the re-release of 2011,
    which has gone to mush:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/001e8f93_6196.jpeg]\r\nDetails
    of back cover of the 1969 sleeeve: \r\nHeads are Helvetica (probably Letraset),
    text a Greek \u201CFutura\u201D (not Olympia).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Olympia_6666.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Olympia1_4970.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Olympia2_5592.jpg]"
  created: '2012-11-26 19:53:13'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Fight! Fight! Fight!
  created: '2012-11-26 20:02:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It\u2019s a discussion.\r\nIt\u2019s not about winning, but resolving important
    issues.\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-26 20:52:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, I'm familiar with examples of Greek modernist design, and my opinion
    that this design was ill-served by mostly clumsy, Latinised types isn't something
    to which I've come lately. While the layout of the older record sleeve you show
    is better than the re-release in every respect, I think the type used was inept,
    not only stylistically but also technically. There are major problems with relative
    proportions, spacing and even basic legibility when it comes to the diacritics.\r\n\r\nAs
    I wrote early in the thread, perception is at play. I actually find more traditionally
    structured Greek letters to be much more restful and less busy in blocks of text
    than these simplified forms, which don't seem to knit together so well. I think
    this is demonstrated in your last two images, in which the Greek completely lacks
    the calm neutrality of the English text.\r\n\r\nI spent a lot of time considering
    this back in 2000-2001, when I was designing the new Greek for Linotype's Helvetica
    World. What I sought in that design was a comparable feel to blocks of text in
    both scripts, which I didn't find was served by the original Helvetica Greek design
    of the 1970s, even though that made free use of many borrowed shapes from the
    Latin. It's a project that taught me a great deal about harmonising different
    scripts, and one of the key lessons was that, contra your assertion that 'a straight
    line is a straight line, whatever script it\u2019s in', a particular arrangement
    of straight lines in one script has an entirely different impact on text than
    a similar arrangement in another script, and a result of different frequencies
    and different combinations of shapes arising from the letter forms.\r\n\r\nWriting
    systems tend to produce, over time, forms that are pleasing to the eye as well
    as being easily readable, simply because readers respond positively to these things.
    And since the reader encounters letters in text, it is in text that this pleasantness
    and readability expresses itself. So I think it is always worthwhile to look at
    blocks of text and ask what makes them pleasing, or not, and take on board what
    generations of scribes, typographers and readers have come up with. So when I
    am harmonising different scripts, even within the context of styles of type associated,
    through their use, with modernism, this is the basis from which I proceed.\r\n\r\nOr,
    to put it another way, I find the ideas of modernism unhelpful in designing successful
    modernist types."
  created: '2012-11-26 21:14:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 these simplified forms, which don't seem to knit together so well.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with you there; but the problem is that enough of the forms are not simpli\uFB01ed\u2014the
    execution, not the principle is at fault.\r\n\r\nHowever, I was not holding up
    this particular cut as a typographic examplar, but citing an indigenous normative
    form of typeface quite different from the stereotype followed by western foundries
    today.\r\nYour taste may lead you in a certain direction, but you can\u2019t justify
    it by saying that it\u2019s what the people are used to, when that is not the
    case.\r\n\r\n<em>Writing systems tend to produce, over time, forms that are pleasing
    to the eye as well as being easily readable, simply because readers respond positively
    to these things.</em>\r\n\r\nThat has not often been the subsequent consensus
    about 19th century typography.\r\nIt is tempting to believe that at this point
    in history we now know best, but that\u2019s hubris (a good Greek word!)"
  created: '2012-11-26 21:36:51'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Don't punk out on me now, Shinn... lol...
  created: '2012-11-26 21:49:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>citing an indigenous normative form of typeface</em>\r\n\r\nNormative?
    Idiosyncratic is the adjective I would use. It may have been trying to achieve
    something worthwhile, but my point is that it fails. And while I'm not denying
    that some form of simplified yet convincing Greek is possible, I'm saying that
    there are common problems in all the attempts I've seen. So while I'd agree that
    the fault is evident in the execution, I'm suspicious of a principle that produces
    so many problem children."
  created: '2012-11-26 22:50:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Normative? Idiosyncratic is the adjective I would use. It may have been
    trying to achieve something worthwhile, but my point is that it fails.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    it didn\u2019t fail to be normative.\r\nGreek versions were made of the major
    20th century European sans typefaces, from Germany (Futura), Switzerland (Helvetica)
    and England (Gill Sans), and these were the norm in mid-century Greek typography
    when a sans was required, just as they were elsewhere throughout Europe. Scholderer\u2019s
    New Hellenic couldn\u2019t carry all the load.\r\n\r\nAnd, just as Gill was localized
    for Germany, so too was Futura adapted to Greece.\r\nThere was dialogue and development;
    the example I just posted does not have the truly idiosyncratic \u201Cbeta=theta
    \uFB02ipped\u201D of Olympia, for instance. Such variants demonstrate that the
    Futura style was a norm.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-26 23:21:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think we're working with different notions of normative. I described the
    process by which normative letter shapes evolve and are regularised over long
    periods of maturing written culture. You are talking about accepted styles of
    typefaces within particular periods of graphic design history. It is perfectly
    possible for typefaces to be successful while straying from or directly contravening
    normative letter shapes, but that doesn't make them normative in terms of the
    writing system.
  created: '2012-11-27 01:42:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "How can normative letter shapes have any shape at all, if not expressed in
    a widely used genre of typeface?\r\n\r\nFor instance, the binocular /g is not
    handwritten, and its shape is too complex for simple verbal or mathematical de\uFB01nition.
    It has been primarily a typographic form for a long period of time.\r\n \r\nThe
    letter /y has at least three topologically distinct normative shapes, which correlate
    broadly with genres of type\u2014geometric, humanist, and techno:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/whys_5799.png]\r\n\r\nIn
    focusing on the Futura or geometric style, I am identifying a genre not just of
    type, but of a stylistic norm which constitutes a categoric subdivision of the
    diversity of letter shapes within writing systems, because many individual letter
    shapes do not regularize down to one standard form. Futura/Olympia is not an aberration."
  created: '2012-11-27 07:09:35'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> He has been the go-to guy for Western type designers who want to do Greek
    right\r\n\r\nI always distrusted this guru-ism (though I appreciate Gerry L. very
    much, of course).\r\nI *did* want to do my Greek right, yet did not go to Gerry.
    Deliberately."
  created: '2012-11-27 12:10:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The binocular g is the normative shape that evolved in the Italian humanist
    formal book hand.\r\n\r\nI didn't say that there was only a single normative shape
    for each letter; indeed, I specifically said that orthographic integrity is a
    continuum. Your example of the three letter y shapes actually makes my point,
    I think: these are recognised normative shapes in which one can see the relationship
    of each to each as well as their stylistic distinctions, and we know how each
    evolved. My point is that you can't simply invent a new shape and proclaim it
    normative, without in the process throwing out any useful application of that
    term. So, for example, the lowercase pi in the album lettering is an innovation
    that I would say is counter-normative for the lowercase Greek alphabet. That doesn't
    imply that it is a failure in itself or within the particular mini-system of the
    type style in which it occurs, but to call it normative of the writing system
    is meaningless. If a genre of type styles develops in which this shape is typical,
    then one can say it is normative of the genre, but as I said, this is a different
    use of the term."
  created: '2012-11-27 18:28:14'
- author:
    name: Aleme
    picture: 111268
  body: "\"Why, in this day and age of stylistic diversity and internationalism, should
    new Greek typefaces be chained to an historic pen-driven model? \" \r\n I am very
    much interested in what is western and what is modern. If something looks western
    is it modern? The best example modernizing a typeface without latinizig would
    be Nyala Ethiopic font designed by Our John Hudson.  He can tell us more but to
    my eyes. He added modern principles of type Design to Ethiopic \r\n(Better proportion,good
    balance,warmth to individual characters wich works well as a text block  etc..,)
    most of all very legible.\r\nRecently I design a 400 page book using Nyala.\r\nI
    also have seen Droid sans Ethiopic designed for google which can be a good example
    of latinaizing non Latin font to the point it is not useable by native users.\r\nI
    think it is good to to discuss what modern means exactly.\r\nThanks\r\nAleme\r\n "
  created: '2012-11-27 20:15:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The binocular g originated in handwriting, but its presence as a norm has
    been entirely typographic since we stopped writing g that way.\r\n\r\n<em>If a
    genre of type styles develops in which this shape </em>[three-sides-of-a-rectangle
    pi]<em> is typical, then one can say it is normative of the genre, but as I said,
    this is a different use of the term.</em>\r\n\r\nNot really. It\u2019s the same
    degree of distinction that exists between the different /y\u2019s.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pies_4467.png]\r\nThe
    range of type styles in which the three-sides-of-a-rectangle pi exists is not
    con\uFB01ned to Futura-geometrics, but includes DIN (both FF and PF) and Verdana/Tahoma
    among others. How can this reductive shape be counter-normative for the lower-case
    Greek alphabet, when it was introduced over 50 years ago in a hugely popular typeface
    and is now widely used in a variety of sans serif type genres?"
  created: '2012-11-27 20:29:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Again, Nick, we're talking about different notions or contexts of normative.
    I'm talking about writing systems and you're talking about typefaces. I don't
    agree that the set of pi shapes you show parallels the set of y shapes, except
    superficially, because the latter all evolved in the normal maturation of a writing
    system, but only the right-most of your pi forms did. The other two are uppercase
    forms that are alien to the normative Greek lowercase alphabet. That doesn't mean
    they're not normative within some styles of typeface, nor that such typefaces
    cannot be popularly or commercially successful. But when you and are use the word
    normative, our signifier has different signifieds. :)
  created: '2012-11-27 23:41:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I too am talking about writing systems.\r\nPerhaps the difference is that
    your concept of the \u201Cnormal maturation\u201D of a writing system does not
    extend into the typographic era, whereas I consider that writing systems continue
    to evolve\u2014just like spoken language, which they represent."
  created: '2012-11-28 00:29:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Warning, extended metaphor ahead.\r\n\r\nI think what happens to writing
    systems that have been reduced to type (borrowing a construction frequently used
    of oral traditions when they are 'reduced to writing') is that they cease to evolve
    in ways that affect the whole genome of the script. Rather, like human evolution
    in the civilisational period, what you get are relatively minor mutations that
    don't spread in the population and only express themselves in fragmented gene
    pools, in this case genres of type. I think this is quite different from what
    is observed during the evolution of a writing system in the context of scribal
    cultures, in which periods of intense creativity produce system-wide paradigm
    changes that then dominate across multiple languages using the script sometimes
    for centuries."
  created: '2012-11-28 00:49:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "To engage your metaphor:\r\n\r\nNot much biological evolution of humanity
    has occurred during the civilizational period.\r\nBut writing systems are entirely
    cultural, and evolve with culture.\r\nThere is no reason for them not to continue
    to evolve, as writing technology changes from clay tablet to pen and paper to
    foundry type to digital fonts and pixel media.\r\n\r\nReading is an important
    part of writing systems, and for the past hundred years there has been near universal
    literacy in the West, with most of the reading being of type, and within this
    century most adult writing being done on a keyboard with digital fonts. That is
    a system-wide paradigm change as great as any that ever occurred in a scribal
    culture, so it is reasonable to assume that it has had a profound effect on the
    normative shapes of letters.\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-28 04:32:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Yes, it has narrowed and mostly frozen them, such that change now only occurs
    within fragmentary stylistic avenues: mutations that do not spread to the general
    population of normative forms. I''m not describing what might happen, or proposing
    counterfactuals, I''m describing what has happened. The evolutionary analogy is
    actually very apt, because what we see in contemporary type design is an explosion
    of stylistic mutations that do not take hold on the writing system in anything
    like the way, to take this back to the original topic, the Byzantine scribal cursive
    took hold of the Greek writing system, or the naskh and nastaliq styles took hold
    of the Arabic and Persian writing systems. I don''t think it is sufficient to
    say that writing is cultural and that it evolves with culture without examining
    what evolution means in this context and acknowledging that what happens in the
    maturation of writing systems is akin to biological evolution, whereas what happens
    in typography is actually akin to evolutionary failure, exciting though it may
    be to watch happening in the petri dish.'
  created: '2012-11-28 05:07:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 what happens in typography is actually akin to evolutionary failure
    \u2026 </em>\r\n\r\nI can\u2019t share such a pessimisitic view.\r\nThe ecosystem
    that thrives is not the monoculture, but one where there is diversity to accomodate
    whatever manner of change it may encounter.\r\n\r\nThe three-sides-of-a-rectangle
    pi has in fact spread to the general population of letter forms and become a norm
    in the Greek writing system, because writing systems in the 21st century are primarily
    typographic and allographic, with multiple norms of many letters, of which pi
    is one. This variety does not mean that the variants are trivial and the pre-typographic
    singularity (if there ever was such a thing) is the only real norm; it just means
    that there is variety, existing in forms that may be categorized according to
    typographic style. \r\n\r\nDespite the fact that the three-sides-of-a-rectangle
    pi can never achieve complete hegemony, it is not a worthless mutant but an old
    species of shape (capital Pi) that now thrives in the lower case sans\u2014ecological
    succession, if you will. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-28 06:18:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hey, no changing the referants mid-metaphor! We were talking about writing
    systems as if they were species (the level at which the evolution metaphor applies),
    not ecosystems.\r\n\r\nWho said anything about pessimism? Is it a matter of pessimism
    that mutations in human genetics are now all evolutionary failures, i.e. that
    they do not propagate to the species? It is simply the observable state of the
    species in its present situation, and I'd say that the same is true of writing
    systems in a typographic situation. Writing systems no longer evolve as they used
    to. This doesn't mean that change doesn't happen, or that the change isn't interesting
    or even fruitful in a limited way, only that it doesn't propagate at the 'species'
    level and hence isn't really evolution.\r\n\r\nAnd I still think you are overstating
    the case for something like the three-sides-of-a-rectangle pi as being in any
    sense a norm in the Greek writing system. It is a feature of a small sub-genre
    of typefaces, and that not a writing system norm constitute. And I think it looks
    rubbish, unconvincing and disruptive of the normal rhythms of the Greek minuscule."
  created: '2012-12-01 19:43:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>We were talking about writing systems as if they were species (the level
    at which the evolution metaphor applies), not ecosystems.</em>\r\n\r\nLooks like
    the conversation evolved!\r\n\r\n<em>It is a feature of a small sub-genre of typefaces,
    and that </em>[does]<em> not a writing system norm constitute.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    are many norms; a norm is a convention of letter form which exists in different
    genres of typeface.\r\nFutura, DIN and Verdana/Tahoma aren\u2019t a sub-genre,
    but a variety of much-used sans faces, ranging from humanist to geometric. \r\nI
    could have mentioned more sans serifs, such as PF Centro.\r\nIt is also designed
    by a Greek and published by a (very successful) Greek foundry, which is enough
    to convince me that it is authentic. \r\nPerhaps they have decided it\u2019s time
    to disrupt the old rhythms.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, those serifed types where the
    extension of the crossbar is nothing more than serifs, such as Rockwell, may also
    be considered members of the \u201Cthree sides of a rectangle pi\u201D norm.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-02 20:08:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'As I said earlier, we''re using the concept of normative in reference to
    different things: you''re talking about ''different genres of typeface'', and
    I''m talking about writing systems; you''re considering typefaces as representing
    the evolution of writing systems in a typographic ecosystem, while I consider
    typefaces to be essentially arbitrary stylistic mutations that, due to the nature
    of the ecosystem, do not represent evolution of the writing system. Both perspectives
    seem to me valid. I prefer mine because it seems to provide a more systemic and
    less general sense of evolution -- something other than just a synonym for ''change''
    --, and because it provides criteria other than fashionable success to make judgements
    about individual typefaces and genres and, indeed, to make design decisions. The
    problem of taking typefaces as constituting new norms is that, as with the so-called
    experimentation of the 1990s, there are no failed experiments.'
  created: '2012-12-02 20:33:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 I consider typefaces to be essentially arbitrary stylistic mutations
    that, due to the nature of the ecosystem, do not represent evolution of the writing
    system. </em>\r\n\r\nHow do you account for the extinction of the long s?\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026
    The problem of taking typefaces as constituting new norms is that, as with the
    so-called experimentation of the 1990s, there are no failed experiments.\u2026
    </em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s not the case with the Greek geometrics. The experimental
    \u201Ctheta = beta \uFB02ipped\u201D of Olympia was not adopted by any other typefaces,
    AFAIK. However, its three-sides-of-a-rectangle pi has become a norm in sans typography,
    because it has been implemented in a variety of widely-used faces.\r\n\r\nTwo
    more faces, serifed, in which this norm exists (note that the Upper and Lower
    Case forms of Pi/pi are identical): Century Schoolbook and Courier. \r\n\r\nEven
    if those past defaults are to be outmoded by ClearType revisionism, there are
    suf\uFB01cient new \u201Crectangular pi\u201D fonts coming online to maintain
    it as a norm \u2014 at least until December 21st when we revert to a pre-typographic
    civilization.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-02 23:13:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John:\r\n\r\nI'm going to number some ideas for ease of reference.  :)  Perhaps
    I'm misunderstanding something in your discussion. But you wrote:\r\n\r\n(1) \"you're
    considering typefaces as representing the evolution of writing systems in a typographic
    ecosystem,\"\r\n\r\n(2) \"while I consider typefaces to be essentially arbitrary
    stylistic mutations that, due to the nature of the ecosystem, do not represent
    evolution of the writing system.\"\r\n\r\nFor my part,\r\n\r\n(3) I consider handwriting
    and even hand-printed lettering to be dying out. Certainly, I don't see how they
    can continue to be significant factors in the evolution of written languages for
    very long. In the case of English, the time is probably ending with the current
    generation.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that if one accepts all the above premises,
    that writing systems will stop evolving as hand-written glyphs cease to be a major
    force.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I see (3) as being a statement that the nature of the
    \"ecosystem\" from (2) is changing. I don't think writing will stop evolving.
    Indeed, modern digital distribution and relative ease of type design means that
    changes can occur much more quickly.\r\n\r\n(I'm not sure whether the rise of
    the smiley face and emoticons counts among such changes, since they work with
    plain ASCII and any existing typeface. But they certainly show rapid change....)"
  created: '2012-12-02 23:17:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tom: <em> I don't think writing will stop evolving. Indeed, modern digital
    distribution and relative ease of type design means that changes can occur much
    more quickly.</em>\r\n\r\nChange does not constitute evolution. I know there is
    a common usage that treats evolution as a synonym for change, but it is imprecise
    and doesn't allow one to say much of interest about change other than that it
    happens and, as you note, may happen quickly or slowly. In order for this metaphor
    to be interesting, let alone enlightening, I think one should first identify the
    functional synonym of change in the evolutionary model, which is mutation. Change
    = mutation. Evolution is one possible outcome of mutation: propagation of the
    mutation through a population, such that one can say that the species has evolved.
    Individuals mutate; species evolve.\r\n\r\nIn order for evolution to occur, there
    must be a mechanism by which a mutation can propagate through a population. In
    biology, the mechanism is sexual reproduction. Such a mechanism is necessary but
    not sufficient: in order for evolution to occur the circumstances must also be
    conducive. It may strike one as ironic, but the more successful a species is in
    terms of the size and spread of its population, the less conducive its circumstances
    are to evolution.\r\n\r\n[This is the situation that human beings arrived at something
    more than 65,000 years ago. Simply put, our population is too large and widespread
    for any mutation to propagate to the species level; evolution is statistically
    impossible. This is not to say that change, i.e. mutations, do not occur, and
    might not even spread in some limited local way, especially in populations that
    live separate from their neighbours, but that as a species homo sapiens is as
    it was in the palaeolithic period, and isn't expected to change.]\r\n\r\nNow,
    if we're going to apply the metaphor to writing systems as the species-level phenomenon,
    which I think makes most sense in terms of a parallel to biological classification,
    then one should ask 'What is the mechanism of propagation of a mutation through
    the population?' And I think the obvious answer is pedagogical reproduction as
    practised by professional scribes. The notion of 'hand-writing', as something
    an individual does, isn't important. What is important in the evolution of a writing
    system is a profession of scribes, of people whose job is to manufacture texts.
    And it is a profession that one sees wherever one sees mature writing systems,
    very often existing as a specialised caste, with reproduction of existing styles
    being a core activity and pedagogical focus (propagation), and invention of new
    styles (mutation) occurring within and feeding into that activity and teaching.
    The Islamic <em>ijazah</em> system of certification in individual styles is a
    good example of such pedagogical reproduction, which enabled <em>naskh</em> an
    8th Century mutation of <em>thuluth</em> by an individual scribe, to propagate
    to the writing system as a whole and become the dominant text style for a large
    part of the Islamic world for more than a thousand years. In that context, it
    makes sense to talk about the evolution of the writing system at the species level,
    and not just a synonym for change. Similarly, if one looks at the scribal culture
    of 18th Century England, as I have been doing for the past couple of years, one
    sees the same active pedagogical reproduction: the teaching of a 'body of penmanship'
    consisting of a repertoire of existing styles that the professional scribe is
    expected to master, which simultaneously provides the conducive circumstance for
    a new mutation, John Seddon's roman of 1695, to propagate and become one of the
    standard hands within forty years. That strikes me as evolution of a writing system
    properly understood, with visible propagation to the species-level and a recognisable
    mechanism by which this happens.\r\n\r\nWith the decline of a professional scribal
    class, the mechanism of propagation degrades -- one by product of which is that
    handwriting becomes a personal, expressive form instead of a mastery of a body
    of styles --, and I believe the development of graphic design in the 20th Century
    further produced circumstances unconducive to such propagation. Instead, one sees
    fragmentation into an ever increasing number and variety of new styles, which
    is akin to something like a population explosion, resulting in a situation in
    which, as we all agree, change (mutation) happens very quickly and frequently,
    but no longer propagates to the species level.\r\n____\r\n\r\nNow, having written
    all that. I'm going to reverse tack somewhat and see if I can find a way to synthesise
    my view and Nick's, and come up with a way to accommodate the kind of design developments
    he observes within this evolutionary metaphor. The key, I think, is to introduce
    sub-species taxonomic ranks, i.e. genera, which enable us to acknowledge that
    the limited propagation of mutations can result in distinctive, and hence classifiable,
    styles that belong to the (no-longer-evolving) writing systems. That is, a limited
    evolution can be said to occur -- in writing and typography -- at the level of
    the genus, which does not significantly affect the species as a whole, but produces
    novel plumage, if you'll excuse the pun."
  created: '2012-12-03 04:12:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>How do you account for the extinction of the long s?</em>\r\n\r\nLazy
    compositors. The typeface makers didn't stop including them; the compositors stopped
    using them. They persisted in writing, though, like most else, until the typewriter
    came along.\r\n\r\nI don't know whether I'd classify this as evolution of the
    writing system. The long s is still there in the system considered in toto, just
    something like the appendix or the atavistic bone structure that I have in my
    ankles."
  created: '2012-12-03 04:20:42'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: I'm enjoying this discussion, gents. Thanks.
  created: '2012-12-03 06:14:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There were certainly economic bene\uFB01ts to dropping the long s\u2014especially
    all the italic ligatures\u2014but printer-publishers would not have exploited
    the productivity opportunity without aesthetic justi\uFB01cation. That it was
    expressive of a larger movement can be seen in this page from Wordsworth\u2019s
    <em>Lyrical Ballads</em>, 1802 edition, which is the sort of thing that would
    have given cachet to the practice. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Preface_5250.jpg]\r\nSource:\r\nhttp://www.jamescumminsbookseller.com/news/?p=156\r\n\r\nCompare
    this process of the normal form of /s changing to one used elsewhere (at the end
    of words) to that of the traditional \u03C0 with \u201Covershooting\u201D crossbar
    being changed to the majuscule form in various typefaces. In both cases, typography
    has been the driving force in rationalizing the writing system.\r\n\r\nThat is,
    assuming that reduction is rational."
  created: '2012-12-03 07:32:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>to introduce sub-species taxonomic ranks, i.e. genera,</blockquote>\r\n\r\nJust
    a small nitpick here, John: Genera are super-species, taxonomically speaking.
    As I\u2019m sure you know, <em>Genus species</em> is the standard format for scientific
    names. The sub-species rank is, well, <em>subspecies</em>.\r\n\r\nKids prefer
    cheese over fried green spinach."
  created: '2012-12-03 13:45:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks for the correction, Kent.\r\n\r\nNick, I see the decline of the long
    s as orthographic reform. I think you are entirely right with regard to the influence
    of a publication such as <em>Lyrical Ballads</em>: it was actually exactly the
    same book that came to my mind as an example from the transition period. But the
    fact that such a reform takes place in publishing, i.e. in a typographic environment,
    does not mean that it is 'driven by typography'. It is driven by reformist publishers,
    editors and authors. As I said, the fonts they were using still included the long
    s, they just opted not to use it.\r\n\r\nMany of the world's writing systems contain
    historical letters that have fallen out of use in modern orthographies. So? Most
    orthographies are only subsets of a writing system."
  created: '2012-12-03 17:50:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the fonts they were using still included the long s, they just
    opted not to use it.</em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s doubtful\u2014it\u2019s more likely
    they would have recycled the metal to cast more short s\u2019s.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-03 19:26:38'
date: '2012-11-14 17:37:31'
node_type: forum
title: MATD 2012

---
