---
author:
  name: msilverz
  picture: 109851
body: "Greetings!\r\n\r\nI apologize in advance if this post is in any way inappropriate.\r\n\r\nA
  professional organization to which I belong -- the American Philosophical Association
  -- is looking for a new logo (and associated branding items). There is an announcement
  on their website, and they asked members to pass it on to any \"good designers\"
  we might know. There are plenty of good designers here, and I thought at least a
  few of them might be interested. \r\n\r\nThe announcement and the request for the
  proposals can be found [[http://www.apaonline.org/APAOnline/Announcements/Announcement_Content/The_APA_is_looking_for_a_new_logo_.aspx|here]].\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nMatty
  Silverstein"
comments:
- author:
    name: paulhunt833-spammer
    picture: 125908
  body: nice post
  created: '2012-11-17 17:41:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: All that for $2500 or less - good luck with that!
  created: '2012-11-17 16:38:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "With a budget of $2,500 USD, I recommend you approach a group of students
    under the supervision of a professor and make a class project out of this. Profit
    or no, $2,500 USD is very low for the following:\r\n\r\nLogos\r\nUsage guidelines\r\nWeb
    design guidelines\r\nEmail templates\r\nBanners\r\nFavicon\r\nLetterhead\r\nBusiness
    cards\r\nThank-you card\r\nPublications designs\r\nTypographic guidelines\r\nFacebook
    & Twitter design guidelines\r\nBrand strategy document\r\n\r\nA practicing professional
    would probably ballpark that closer to $10\u201325,000.00 USD depending on the
    size of their operation and how much of their labour they would be willing to
    donate in kind.\r\n\r\nTo give you a sense of the cost of a quality font, let\u2019s
    say I suggested you use <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/starling/\">Starling</a>
    as your text face for all your printed materials. The font alone would cost you
    \ $1,080 USD for a 6\u201310 computer license. Almost half your budget. \r\n\r\nIf
    you made a class project out of this, you could put your budget towards purchasing
    a high quality font(s) for your materials, and have enough left over to play for
    the class\u2019 printing budget (students making colour laser prints for their
    presentations) and provide the selected student with a small honorarium."
  created: '2012-11-17 17:20:00'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Don't forget they also get to retain the rights to the design and the source
    files for their $2500, and the list of requirements \"includes but isn't limited
    to...\". Unbelievable!\r\n\r\nThis is a substantial chunk of work for peanuts.
    Matthew, you should ask the originator of this brief whether they would undertake
    this amount of work for the fee they're offering. I'm betting the honest answer
    would be a resounding no."
  created: '2012-11-17 17:36:45'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "At that price, only if they'd accept some other organization's branding guidelines
    with the name replaced, and the letters IPA in TNR or Arial or Comic Sans.\r\n\r\n
    - Herb"
  created: '2012-11-17 17:54:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: This should be fun for the next few days at least. Would it be inappropriate
    to email the link of this thread to their HR contact listed in the RFP?
  created: '2012-11-17 18:09:42'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> A practicing professional would probably \r\n> ballpark that closer to
    $10\u201325,000.00\r\n\r\nYep, $2,500 is absurd for the amount of work they're
    requesting. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-17 18:30:19'
- author:
    name: msilverz
    picture: 109851
  body: OK then! So much for that idea . . .
  created: '2012-11-17 18:32:13'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: Just to be clear, I'm not having a dig at you personally Matthew, please don't
    think I'm shooting the messenger! You couldn't have chosen a better place to source
    some real talent, it's just that the expectation / budget ratio is way off.
  created: '2012-11-17 20:14:17'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> please don't think I'm shooting the messenger! \r\n\r\nSame thing here.
    Sometimes organizations have unrealistic expectations simply because they don't
    have much experience working with designers. They may have a general idea what
    a plumber or accountant or auto mechanic charges, but unless they work with designers
    frequently they may have no idea what the going rates are."
  created: '2012-11-17 20:42:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Ditto. I still think the student idea is a viable option. Give it to a bunch
    of 4th years in a degree program.\r\n\r\nhttp://nscad.ca/en/home/academicprograms/design/programs.aspx\r\n\r\nThis
    was not uncommon when I did my undergrad."
  created: '2012-11-17 20:57:22'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Instead of regretting the work from a group of wannabes ... however well
    intended ... simply go to your membership and ask for $2.00 from each member,
    that's 20k right there.\r\n\r\nThen go out and hire a non-student ...preferably
    one with a strong folio.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-17 21:26:04'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I've got mixed feelings about having a class do it. \r\n\r\nOn the plus side,
    it can save a lot of money, and it's good to give students the opportunity to
    work on a real-world project. \r\n\r\nOn the negative side, your design will be
    done by people still learning their craft, the job is likely to take longer, and
    long-term follow-up may be non-existant once the class project ends (unlike having
    a relationship with a professional designer who knows your organization well and
    is on call for future tweaks and projects)."
  created: '2012-11-18 00:33:52'
- author:
    name: msilverz
    picture: 109851
  body: The messenger is relieved to hear that he wasn't shot at!
  created: '2012-11-18 19:33:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The deliverables list is a bit long, but I don't think the budget is unrealistic
    for a logo design. A solo local designer can likely be found for that budget.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-19 03:26:12'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Very much is asked for, for very little. This does not appeal so much as
    professional *to me*.\r\n\r\nHowever, it is an interesting task, no doubt. Why
    making things so complicated by wanting everything at once? There would be several
    ways to approach the goal effectively. (this is philosophy too, isn\u2019t it
    ;-)\r\n\r\nWhy not just ask for logo drafts in a first run, rewarding three first
    prices handsomely and then look how to go on with it? \r\nRequesting a reference
    portfolio the same time with a complete design proposal \u2013 that seems rather
    odd to me.\r\nIs it neccessary to fix in advance that a logo design and a website
    colour scheme have to come from one single party?\r\nQuestions, questions, questions
    \u2026 .\r\n\r\nTruely philosophical * * *\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-19 23:11:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>Why not just ask for logo drafts in a first run, rewarding three
    first prices handsomely and then look how to go on with it?</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    dangerously close to <a href=\"http://www.no-spec.com/faq/\">spec work</a>. Shame
    on you."
  created: '2012-11-20 02:59:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Shame on established designers who shame up-and-coming designers so they
    can keep making more money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 03:08:32'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Really? You\u2019re going to need a little more than that to rationalize
    spec work. You honestly can\u2019t see how it\u2019s ultimately self defeating
    for the entire profession? So a student low-balls a professional by 90%, creates
    a false expectation of the works true value to the client (and their colleagues)
    who then expect the same work for the same (ridiculously low) price, only to be
    low-balled by another student by another 90%? Rinse, lather, repeat. Stats isn\u2019t
    my strongest suit, but seriously. Do the math. Unless of course you have already
    embraced the inevitability of a career change for the bulk of practicing designers. "
  created: '2012-11-20 03:26:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's certainly true that the bulk of practicing designers should've been
    something else.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 03:55:51'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Spec work is indeed a bad thing for the profession. \r\n\r\nI can see how
    it's tempting to clients, but what they often don't realize is that their concepts
    will be coming mostly from amateurs, students, and designers who are having trouble
    making a living. A successful designer is not going to prepare free concepts (except
    perhaps for charitable or high-prestige projects)."
  created: '2012-11-20 05:29:34'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> That\u2019s dangerously close to spec work. Shame on you.\r\n\r\nKeep calm.
    \u2013 Basically, what I was mentioning is nothing else than a kind of competition
    for which you may volunteer or not. It\u2019s as witty as any crowd-sourcing approach
    ;-)\r\n\r\nHowever, if I would be the client, I\u2019d prefer the more focussed
    method anyway. Search for some acknowlegded designers and ask them what they could
    do for a certain amount of money.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 08:33:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: ".\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-20 18:03:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> It\u2019s as witty as any crowd-sourcing approach\r\n\r\nNo, it is very
    different from many other kinds of crowd-sourcing.\r\n\r\nFor example, in crowd-sourced
    funding, all the money contributed is useful and used. In this kind of spec work,
    a bunch of people all take a stab at something, and the work of all but one person
    is thrown away.\r\n\r\nIt is simply horribly inefficient, a waste of the time
    and effort of many people. That's in addition to driving down prices (which may
    be good or bad depending on whether you are a consumer or a producer).\r\n\r\n>
    a kind of competition for which you may volunteer or not\r\n\r\nThat's exactly
    the same as virtually all other spec work. You are using a different word, but
    what is being described is no different."
  created: '2012-11-20 21:31:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Failure is the greatest teacher, and far less of a waste than canned success.\r\n\r\nTo
    me virtually all of the work from places like Landon stinks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 22:05:48'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>Failure is the greatest teacher,\r\n\r\nhhp</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo,
    it's not. Reward training is the best teacher .... positive reinforcement. \r\n\r\nNice
    try.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-20 22:47:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I\u2019m gonna have to support 5Star on that one. Positive reinforcement
    has been shown to influence behaviour far more than negative reinforcement. For
    a very long time."
  created: '2012-11-20 22:58:24'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: 'Positive reinforcement is the best teacher, but in some ways you do learn
    a lot more from failure. '
  created: '2012-11-20 23:01:43'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> > a kind of competition for which you may volunteer or not\r\n\r\n>That's
    exactly the same as virtually all other spec work. You are using a different word,
    but what is being described is no different.\r\n<\r\n\r\nAlright. But, being honest,
    that\u2019s life. We\u2019re in a spec world. Blame for it \u2013 who?\r\n\r\nWhy
    is the average regard of design work still so low that we have to deal with such
    forwardings up to the day? Why is our work not taken for serious? I just wonder."
  created: '2012-11-20 23:45:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Reward training? Woof, woof!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 23:47:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Because the bulk of graphic design is a luxury item in a world at war with
    a struggling economy and dwindling finite resources. Food is more important than
    fonts. That\u2019s a tough thing for a typographer to say. Heavy."
  children:
  - author:
      name: npgraphicdesign
    body: "That's a...bold...statement. BOLD. \r\n\r\nYeah."
    created: '2012-11-20 23:52:54'
  created: '2012-11-20 23:49:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "It\u2019s also sad and true."
  created: '2012-11-21 00:15:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I would call that a THIN statement. Look around you - we are bombarded with
    more design than ever before, signage, email blasts, junk mail, you name it. It
    is not a luxury item if you are trying to sell something, which everyone is.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2012-11-21 00:38:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "My point is, as money and resources become more and more scarce, we are all
    going to need to focus on meeting our basic needs. That means responsible consumption
    on behalf of the consumer, and responsible allocation of resources on behalf of
    the corporation. And just because there\u2019s lots of it, doesn\u2019t mean it
    has real value. \r\n\r\nFor example, McDonalds sells a lot of hamburgers, but
    getting a CEO from from McDonalds-land to admit that their \u201Cfood-like-substance\u201D
    has virtually no nutritional value whatsoever would probably be about fruitful
    as convincing a room full of typographers that hinting\u2026 I think you see where
    I\u2019m going with this.\r\n\r\nAs far as \u201C<em>It is not a luxury item if
    you are trying to sell something</em>\u201D I\u2019m not quite sure what that
    means. Are we talking about the person selling the overpriced smelly-water, the
    advertisement for it, or the smelly-water itself?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smelly_5580.jpg]"
  created: '2012-11-21 01:34:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, your arguments are vapid, and your comparison of CEOs to type designers
    is irrational.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-21 02:26:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "How do you define Vapid? \r\n\r\nIf we go with Google \u2014 \u201COffering
    nothing that is stimulating or challenging\u201D \u2014 then I can interpret your
    comment as agreeing with me stating the obvious, or disagreeing, without a counterpoint.\r\n\r\nAnd
    my comparison of McDonald\u2019s CEO to typographers might be misunderstood. All
    I am saying with that analogy is that McDonalds guy is obviously biased towards
    the value of his product, just as we are to ours."
  created: '2012-11-21 02:40:00'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Why is [design] not taken for serious?\r\n\r\nThat's a very broad statement.
    Average consumers and small businesses have little contact with designers so it's
    natural that they have no idea how business is conducted or what it costs. But
    many corporations deal routinely with designers and know how things are done and
    what they cost. \r\n\r\nLast week one of my corporate clients asked me to estimate
    a design job. I said $15,000 (which was reasonable for the job), they said fine,
    and I had a p.o. the next day. Simple. They deal with designers every day and
    know what the going rates are. But when I deal with mom-and-pop shops who aren't
    used to buying design services, it's a different story and I have to justify and
    fight for every dollar.\r\n\r\nAs to the question of why clients sometimes ask
    for spec work, I think there are a number of reasons, but one might be that they
    have seen or read about advertising agencies competing for work. Several agencies
    will each come up with ideas and make presentations in hopes of getting the account.
    But that's really an apples to oranges situation, as an ad agency might get years
    of work and millions of billing dollars if they win a big account. That's very
    different from a graphic designer being asked to do free work in hopes of \"winning\"
    a one-time, routine job."
  created: '2012-11-21 05:52:52'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> But when I deal with mom-and-pop shops who aren't used to buying design
    services, it's a different story and I have to justify and fight for every dollar.\r\n\r\nAPA,
    a mom-and-pop shop?\r\n\r\n> \u2026 the bulk of graphic design is a luxury item
    \u2026\r\n\r\nWe are going to make ourselves completely uncredible by such statements.
    If you would be right, Chris, APA would be justifiable with their spec method:
    \u201Cit\u2019s trash anyway, so why not asking for two loads of it for the price
    of one?\u201D \u2013 economy.\r\nNO!\r\nDesign is shaping our world. Conducting
    communication. Making a sustainable environment, ease living. And, yes, to please.
    In m.h.o. this is anything but luxury. \r\nAnd brand or trade mark \u2013 which
    stoud at the beginning of this \u2013 is neither an item of luxury, on the contrary.
    A trade mark materializes identity, hence it has VALUE. Very high value, sometimes.
    It\u2019s not a nicety you can put on as apparel or strip of like socks. "
  created: '2012-11-21 07:57:20'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '~'
  created: '2012-11-21 12:59:40'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: "Graphic design is not a luxury item. Thinking of it as a product is problematic
    to begin with*. It is a service where messages are communicated graphically. Almost
    every organization realizes the importance of communicating with it's audience,
    as a necessity, not a luxury. \r\n\r\n*It would be interesting to compare this
    with typeface design which could be considered a product."
  created: '2012-11-21 14:38:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "*chuckle*\r\n\r\nJust had this bot follow me on twitter and thought the timing
    was funny:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mycheapjobs.com/Video/7213/create-professional-title-based-intro-video"
  created: '2012-11-21 15:26:02'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> a mom-and-pop shop?\r\n\r\nA slang expression referring to a small store
    with just a few employees, only one location, and typically run by members of
    a family. "
  created: '2012-11-21 15:39:03'
- author:
    name: msilverz
    picture: 109851
  body: "In a comment on a recent blog post by the new director of the American Philosophical
    Association, I mentioned the reaction here to the APA's request for proposals
    (and in particular to the suggested fee of $2,5000). Here is what the APA director
    said in reply: \"We know our project budget is small, but as stated in the RFP,
    we're more than willing to consider proposals over that amount\u2014we just need
    the budget to be explained in the proposal so we understand what we are getting
    for the additional cost. The APA's finances are tight, but we do want to pay a
    fair wage for the project, and if we receive a proposal that convinces us we should
    increase the budget, we will find the money to do so.\"\r\n\r\nI don't know if
    that will encourage anyone here to take a stab, but it seems reasonable."
  created: '2012-12-04 16:15:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@msilverz: Thank you very much for that update. It\u2019s nice to hear that
    we\u2019re being thought of. I\u2019m confidant that your communication, and this
    new information, will make a significant difference. Indeed, it may already have
    to the APA. I do a fair amount of work for the academic community and I know what
    it\u2019s like."
  created: '2012-12-04 20:22:00'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Side note:\r\n\r\nI think the Paul Hunt (paulhunt833) is a spam bot who may
    have taken over the real Paul Hunt (from Adobe, etc). Somebody better check on
    him!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-04 21:16:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So what font would you use to set \"drama queen\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-04 22:28:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Mr Silverstein:\r\n\r\nGiven the response here, I'd suggest contacting one
    of the designers at your university's press (Chicago). They live in roughly the
    same world as you, and in that world, have won a fair number of awards for their
    work. One of them might take it on as a freelance project.\r\n\r\nOtherwise--\r\n<cite>A
    practicing professional would probably ballpark that closer to $10\u201325,000.00
    USD depending on the size of their operation and how much of their labour they
    would be willing to donate in kind.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou've got to be kidding. Jeez,
    am I in the wrong spot. \r\n\r\n1. For any who have even considered my advice,
    I apologize. I can only plead that I didn't know who I was dealing with. \r\n\r\nWith
    that in mind,\r\n\r\n2. Please delete all my posts from the last 8 years as being
    obviously inappropriate for this group. I'm sure http://typophile.com/user/204659
    can provide any needed information for your world."
  created: '2012-12-04 23:34:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Who, me? You guys live in a different world. Wouldn't dare offer an opinion.
    Maybe go with whatever Chris was going to use for the\r\n\r\n<cite>@charles_e:
    An honest day\u2019s wage for an honest day\u2019s work.</cite>\r\n\r\nhe posted
    on the TDC competition thread?\r\n\r\nOf course, that's still world-dependent.
    In the world I live in -- scholarly publishing -- I believe if you check the indexes
    for the last 20 years of the AAUP bookshow, you'll find our company -- about 5
    or 6 of us -- have \"composed\" more books selected for the show than any other
    single firm of whatever size. I haven't done this, I could be wrong. But if not
    the most, then comfortably way up there. \r\n\r\nSo much for <cite>bona fides</cite>
    in my world. Are you interested in what we charge to set a book? How much for
    image prep? An indication of what we make in terms of salaries? I doubt it, too
    different a world. Hint: at $25K a pop, I could do 2 logos in year and make significantly
    more...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 01:29:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We each live in a different world.\r\n\r\nPlease do offer your opinions,
    but don't be sure you're right, and most of all don't have a whiny hissy-fit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 01:41:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Sorry if you thought I was whining. My fault. A communications issue. I should
    know there is no way to soften calling an asshole an asshole.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nProblem
    is, once you flat out say it, everyone just reacts and stops thinking.\r\n\r\nSo
    stop with the cheap shots."
  created: '2012-12-05 01:46:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can't make me stop thinking, and you can't make me start feeling.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 01:57:47'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> at $25K a pop, I could do 2 logos in year \r\n> and make significantly
    more...\r\n\r\nWell they're asking for a lot more than just a logo. But putting
    that aside, there are some factors which make the freelance life less appealing
    than you might think. For example...\r\n\r\n\u2022 You must buy your own health
    insurance (I pay around $800 a month)\r\n\u2022 No paid sick days\r\n\u2022 No
    paid holidays\r\n\u2022 No paid vacations\r\n\u2022 No retirement plan (except
    what you save yourself)\r\n\u2022\_Slow periods when you have zero income for
    several days/weeks\r\n\u2022 The occasional client who doesn't pay you\r\n\u2022
    If you've got an office and/or employees, a big chunk of your income will be spent
    paying expenses\r\n\r\nWhen you're busy and the money is rolling in, it's great.
    But there are lots of times I envy friends who have regular jobs with steady paychecks
    and fringe benefits.\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 05:16:53'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "James, I own half the business. Often I envy the freelancers -- they don't
    have as many other mouths they are responsible for.\r\n\r\nMy biggest grumble
    is someone new comes on the site and asks a question. It is obvious they're not
    Coca-Cola, not looking for New York, Madison Avenue, Mad Men prices. But they're
    told that's all there is, anything else is \"not professional,\" and by implication,
    \"not good.\"\r\n\r\nThat is not true, not good information. And it denigrates
    the rest of us."
  created: '2012-12-05 15:43:44'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "\"Failure is the greatest teacher, and far less of a waste than canned success.\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    a dull statement\u2026\r\n\r\n\"The fastest to deliver me a sandwich gets paid,
    all the other ones, just learn from your failure to deliver quickly enough\".\r\n\r\n\u2026
    seriously, there are design school to learn. And then, most young designers make
    internships to continue learning and getting experience.\r\nOnce in the professional
    world, with bills to pay, a designers deserves to be paid for his work. Because
    you are learning something doesn't mean you're not supposed to earn a decent wage.\r\n\r\nThen,
    of course, everybody is \"free\" to do whatever they want, and participate to
    bullshit spec work/competitions if they \"want\"."
  created: '2012-12-05 16:26:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>they're told that's all there is</blockquote>\r\n\r\nPure codswallop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 16:32:04'
date: '2012-11-17 12:49:52'
node_type: forum
title: Professional Organization Looking for New Logo

---
