---
author:
  name: Moseph
body: "Hello Everyone,\r\n\r\nLooking for some input on a New Years resolution I'm
  making. For the next year I want to work with a limited set of typefaces. \r\n\r\nThe
  idea of working with \"a few good typefaces\" has always appealed to me, but I've
  never decided what those should be. Now that web fonts are sufficiently supported
  (90% of my work is web design), I have decided to pick 20 typefaces to work with
  all year.\r\n\r\nBut I have a slight problem. I narrowed my selection down to 17
  \ typefaces and don't really see any more that seem necessary.  Do you see some
  glaring omissions in this list? Or is 20 not really a very restrictive number? Should
  I aim for 10, 5? \r\n\r\nHere's the selections so far:\r\n\r\n<strong>THE SERIFS</strong>\r\n
  \   1 - Beufort\r\n    2 - Caecelia\r\n    3 - Clarendon\r\n    4 - Chapparrel\r\n
  \   5 - Palantino Nova\r\n    6 - Perpetua\r\n    7 - Georgia \r\n    8 - Iowan
  Oldstyle \r\n    9 - ITC Charter\r\n\r\n<strong>THE SANS</strong>\r\n    1 - Avenir
  Next\r\n    2 - FF OCR\r\n    3 - Gill Sans\r\n    4 - Myriad\r\n    5 - Optima
  Nova\r\n    6 - Sweet Sans\r\n    7 - Trade Gothic\r\n    8 - Verdana\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat
  would you add or subtract?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nMoe\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry, but I think that's a stinky resolution. The good news is you have
    plenty of time to find a good one. Like: resolve to make a font. Take the whole
    year.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Moseph
    body: "Hah, yeah, that would be a far more noble pursuit! But I doubt my type
      design skills would fetch much money!\r\n\r\nCare to elaborate on why the resolution
      is \"stinky\" in your opinion?\r\n\r\n-Moe"
    created: '2012-11-20 01:23:01'
  created: '2012-11-20 01:11:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't realize your resolution was about money. So using fewer fonts brings
    in money? Are you going to buy all those fonts in advance?\r\n\r\nIt's stinky
    because it's artificial - it misunderstands what a font does. Good font selection
    depends on the project, and the only way a canned list could make sense is if
    you can predict the future.\r\n\r\nYou know Massimo \"Six Fonts\" Vignelli? Worse
    than the worst font pirate. At least the pirates appreciate fonts. I remember
    with fondness the time I confronted him on the ATypI list.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 01:57:04'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "It depends on what you do.\r\n\r\nIf all you do is send emails, then you
    probably have 16 too many.\r\n\r\nIf you create posters and advertising for clients,
    then you have thousands too few.\r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2012-11-20 03:13:11'
- author:
    name: Moseph
  body: "Thanks for the feedback. I can see your point(s). The sites and companies
    I work for are in conservative industries (utilities, insurance, law, architecture).
    So I guess I am able to predict the future to some extent. \r\n\r\nAs for saving/making
    money, these font's are available via my fonts.com subscription for use on the
    web. If I use them in print, the customer is billed for them, so it's not really
    a profit thing, except I am hoping it will save me time in selecting typefaces
    (on average I spend 3-6 hours selecting typefaces every time one needs choosing).\r\n\r\n-Moe"
  created: '2012-11-20 03:27:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "From my position, I think the entire serif list can be scraped, and on the
    sans side, the only one worth keeping is Gill. I\u2019ll give it 2 mins and the
    rest of this pint for now:\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/1813/universnext.html\">Univers</a></strong>,
    Gill, Futura.\r\n\r\nGaramond, Baskerville, Bodoni, Caslon, Century Schoolbook,
    Courier, <strong><a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/starling/\">Starling</a></strong>.
    \r\n\r\nAnd in all honesty, I could do 9o% of my work with just two. It\u2019s
    not the font, but how you use it. A skilled typographer can set a wedding invitation
    in Helvetica. Or, as my Grandfather once told me, \u201CTis a poor craftsman who
    blames his tools.\u201D"
  created: '2012-11-20 03:50:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "'Tis a poor craftsman who uses a hammer to drive a screw.\r\n\r\nAnybody
    who can't see that each job has its own ideal font doesn't grasp the first thing
    about type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 03:59:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I\u2019m not denying that every context can use a different face, I\u2019m
    just saying that if push came to shove, through use of colour, size, weight, space,
    &c, I could solve most any problem with Times & Arial. And I know you could too."
  created: '2012-11-20 04:05:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We must mean different things by \"solve\". And remind me not to let you
    design any of my kids' wedding invitations.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 04:13:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>remind me not to let you design any of my kids' wedding invitations</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nSNAP!
    Always nice to end the day with a smile ;)"
  created: '2012-11-20 04:22:00'
- author:
    name: Moseph
  body: "Thanks Dean, I appreciate your viewpoint. Thanks for the link to Starling
    as well, I'll have to take a good look at that.\r\n\r\nAll of the other fonts
    you mentioned were on my short list and got removed for the following reasons:\r\n\r\nUnivers
    - too similar to Myriad on screen\r\nFutura - x-height is a bit small for screen.
    Replaced with Gill Sans\r\n\r\nGaramond - replaced with Iowan Oldstyle\r\nBaskerville
    - Replaced with Georgia (on the screen, pretty similar)\r\nBodoni - Removed. Too
    difficult to reproduce on screen at even medium sizes\r\nCaslon - Removed. Too
    similar to Iowan Oldstyle on the screen\r\nCourier - Completely overlooked selecting
    a mono-spaced font, thanks!\r\nCentury Schoolbook - Replaced this with Georgia,
    but that might have been hasty, on screen they're fairly distinct.\r\n\r\nPlease
    don't cringe at these substitutions, I do realize these typefaces in print are
    very distinct from one another and have unique histories. But since this exercise
    is almost exclusively going to be carried out on the screen, these typefaces become
    similar enough (to my eye at least) that I didn't think the redundancy was warranted.\r\n\r\nIs
    this way off base? Are there better compromises to take, or important features
    that I missed?\r\n\r\n-Moe\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-20 05:43:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I did not realize they were strictly for screen. Given that we are rapidly
    approaching resolutiution that exceeds our visyal acuity threshold, fonts designed
    for screen are irrelevant. Basically, past a certain point, we can only see so
    many dots per inch. Some say we are there with apple\u2019s Retina Displays. As
    such, designing for screen is finally moot.\r\n\r\nRegarding your choices, I still
    think you\u2019re crazy ;).\r\n\r\nFirst, Gill is sooooo far from Futura there\u2019s
    no way one can possibly replace the other. One is humanistic, looks good as a
    sans for small body copy, the other is almost perfectly geometric. Just compare
    the [a] and [t] glyphs. The Berthold Futura also comes with small caps and oldstyle
    figures (SC & OSF). Rare for a sans.\r\n\r\nAs far as your other replacements,
    Myriad = Univers, they don\u2019t even come close to resembling one another, and
    Univers kicks the siht out of Myriad bassed on the size of its family alone.\r\n\r\nBodoni
    is a tough call, and I might give you that one. I have never used it for body
    copy, and sometimes for display. But in an \u201CI can only have so many\u201D
    list, I think having a didot is essential.\r\n\r\nCaslon. Possibly one of the
    best workhorse fonts even designed. \u201CWhen in doubt, set it in Caslon.\u201D
    Somewhat of a \u201Cif theres a chance things are going to go totally of the rails,
    I better use this one just in case.\u201D However, this adage came from the days
    of potentally poor paper and printing (deliberate alliteration).\r\n\r\nCentury
    Schoolbook, again, not even close to Georgia so I\u2019m not sure where the replacement
    logic comes into play. Century is another fantastic workhorse. Easy to read (some
    say bassed on frequency of exposure), good x-height, strong bold, salient italic,
    another very good go-to. Personally, I prefer ITC Century.\r\n\r\nOh, and I may
    have missed a few. You should have a glyphic, Optima is pretty standard, but has
    quite a small family. I prefer Nick Shin\u2019s <strong><a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/shinntype/beaufort/\">Beaufort</a></strong>.
    Mainly due to the size of the family, and the presene of SC & OSF.\r\n\r\nAlso
    a blackletter. Possibly <strong><a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/san-marco/\">San
    Marco</a></strong> as it traditionally pairs well with Garamond. I think that
    came from Bringhurst, but my library is in storage. If you went for some <strong><a
    href=\"http://www.linotype.com/search/goudy#603ce4d6a2eab537102f7929695ab6ed\">Goudys</a></strong>,
    you\u2019d be killing two birds with one stone (serif & blackletter from the same
    family).\r\n\r\nFor a swash I\u2019d have to go with <strong><a href=\"http://www.fontyukle.net/en/1,poetica\">Poetica</a></strong>
    again, due to the size of the family. That, and the set of ampersands simply kicks
    ass.\r\n\r\nScript, never used that many, but I find myself leaning towards <strong><a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/kuenstler-script/\">Kuenstler</a></strong>.\r\n\r\nWhen
    selecting a typeface, two of the most important things I consider are:\r\n\r\n1.
    The size of the family (range of weights, italics &c).\r\n\r\n2. Does it have
    SC & OSF?\r\n\r\nIf it doesn\u2019t meet those criteria, it seldom makes it to
    the list of contenders. If you *cough*Paul*cough* want to get into a discussion
    about appropriateness for the context, I will still say a skilled typographer
    can use most any typeface and have it speak in a certain tone of voice through
    use of additional design decisions such as colour, space, size &c. The same old
    Helvetica wedding defence. \r\n\r\nAnd definitely look into Starling. It truly
    is a work of art (and Mike Parker is a wonderful person).\r\n\r\nI still might
    be missing your intention, but it seems as though most of your selections are
    cheep, if not free, and lousy covers of the real thing. Right down to being pre-installed
    system fonts. Is there a logic to this?\r\n\r\nBAM!"
  created: '2012-11-20 16:12:00'
- author:
    name: Moseph
  body: "Thanks Chris for your input. A couple of contextual clarifications. \r\n\r\n1)
    \ Based on my clients web analytics, less than 5% of their customers are using
    Macs. So <em>very</em> few of them will have retina displays (and honestly, I
    think we're still several years away from these displays being mainstream)\r\n\r\n2)
    \ The typefaces that were selected which also happen to be system fonts were chosen
    because they have been hinted for the screen. Honestly, I don't know if many of
    the other typefaces recommended here are. Until retina displays are mainstream,
    this is still important for anyone serious about type looking <em>crispy</em>
    on the web. Sadly, a lot of great typefaces designed for print turn to absolute
    mud on the screen.\r\n\r\nBut as for using Helvetica on wedding invitations, I
    couldn't agree more! Used it last year for a baby shower card. Worked great.\r\n\r\n-Moe"
  created: '2012-11-20 18:12:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Plus \"retina\" displays being sharp enough to make pixels irrelevant is
    bogus. For one thing I can still see the gray miasma on Apple's rendering anywhere,
    and I'm 44.\r\n\r\nBTW hopefully that baby won't turn out to be a competent designer,
    see the card, and hate his parents.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Moseph
    body: "Haha, the odds aren't too bad for him becoming a designer. His mom's an
      architect and his dad's a web developer.  But it might have the opposite effect;
      I remember asking my friend why he was so fond of Futura and he said 'My favorite
      series of story books as a kid was set in futura, I looked at those letter forms
      for <em>years,</em> so now they always make me feel good.\" So perhaps the new
      baby will just associate Helvetica with the love he received as a child (like
      \ one of my clients who calls it the \"Sesame Street font!\") \r\n\r\n-Moe"
    created: '2012-11-20 18:39:32'
  created: '2012-11-20 18:18:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: You really should post your Helvetica/wedding/baby comments in the <a href="http://typophile.com/node/58525">Typography
    jokes thread</a>. Thats two really good zingers so far.
  created: '2012-11-20 18:30:00'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Personally I think a wedding invite done in Helvetica could be awesome.
  created: '2012-11-20 18:59:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "https://www.google.ca/search?q=helvetica+wedding+invitation&aq=f&sugexp=chrome,mod%3D6&um=1&ie=UTF-8&hl=en&tbm=isch&source=og&sa=N&tab=wi&ei=P96rUK6WCJHK0AGqwoGADg&biw=1391&bih=783&sei=Qd6rUOBEjKrQAYK-gOgH\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    already a thing. Sorry paul :'("
  created: '2012-11-20 19:49:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "https://www.google.ca/search?q=helvetica+wedding+invitation&aq=f&sugexp=chrome,mod%3D6&um=1&ie=UTF-8&hl=en&tbm=isch&source=og&sa=N&tab=wi&ei=P96rUK6WCJHK0AGqwoGADg&biw=1391&bih=783&sei=Qd6rUOBEjKrQAYK-gOgH\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    already a thing. Sorry paul :\u2018("
  created: '2012-11-20 19:50:00'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: In fact, Michael Place talks about setting his wedding invitations in Helvetica
    in the Helvetica film, and mentions his wife vetoing a colophon.
  created: '2012-11-23 04:05:36'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "And, to actually address the topic of the thread, I disagree quite a bit
    with your list \u2014 of course every designer will disagree with a list like
    this, but here's my opinions:\r\n\r\nChaparral (note the spelling) is fairly similar
    to Caecilia \u2014 both kind of humanistic slab serifs. I would never use Perpetua
    for anything on screen. It's too delicate. What about some classic serifs \u2014
    a Garamond, a Jensen, a Janson? \r\n\r\nBaskerville is very different from Georgia
    \u2014 I'm not sure how that replacement works. Georgia is more similar to Caslon
    than Baskerville. \r\n\r\nThere's certainly a more interesting monospaced font
    than Courier.\r\n\r\nHow about Scala, which looks great on screen?\r\n\r\nI could
    do without Verdana, and I might add Scala Sans or some other humanist sans.\r\n\r\nIf
    you think through the different categories of serifs and sans fonts, and different
    historical models, you can probably put together a more comprehensive list without
    making it any longer.\r\n\r\nAnd a few nice display faces are in order too....\r\n\r\nHere's
    a thought \u2014 since this is a resolution, why not resolve to license and use
    only recent releases for your list of fonts? So for every category, choose one
    new font by a smallish or up-and-coming foundry to use. Then you would be limiting
    yourself to your list, but also expanding your knowledge of contemporary type
    design. And you could get to know some lesser-known fonts and support some independent
    designers along the way!\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2012-11-23 04:21:44'
- author:
    name: Moseph
  body: "Wow Joshua, thanks for your response! A lot of good ideas and information
    there. \r\n\r\nThe responses to this thread has really made me rethink this whole
    idea. A lot of the typefaces I chose are not really appropriate for the times
    of type on the web. That said, you're idea of only using new (and I would add,
    screen optimized) typefaces from up-and-coming foundries would be a better resolution.
    \r\n\r\nThanks everyone for your blunt-yet-reasonable insight.\r\n\r\n-Moe"
  created: '2012-11-25 04:38:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Asking type designers about using fewer fonts is sort of fruitless. They
    tend see it as a loss of income.\r\n\r\nMost of the really good book designers
    I know work with about 4 text faces. They'll change those from time to time. A
    few more for display.  The plus is they get to know the fonts they use very well.
    One exception was Richard Eckersley, he'd usually cut that to one or two fonts.
    Believe he only used Trinite (and Baskerville, if Trinite was just wrong) the
    last 3-4 years of his life.\r\n\r\nThe paper used for printing is a factor --
    if this is indeed about print projects. Hard to find fonts that work equally well
    on both coated & uncoated stocks. \r\n\r\nAnd BTW, for text, Perpetua doesn't
    work with ink on paper, either, unless you're talking 14-point, metal type/letterpress
    printing. For display, it can work. However, I suspect from the fonts you've selected
    you're doing work for the web? "
  children:
  - author:
      name: J. Tillman
      picture: 118124
    body: "Charles_e, I know I'm going off topic, but could you offer a brief explanation
      of why some fonts work only for coated or for uncoated paper? Thank you.\r\n\r\nEdit:
      The fonts that look good on the laser printer beside my desk, which category
      would they be in?"
    created: '2012-11-26 17:33:39'
  created: '2012-11-26 03:00:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even if I won the lottery (unlikely since I don't play) I would believe that
    limiting your font choice is merely compensation for some other shortcoming.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-26 03:22:18'
- author:
    name: Moseph
  body: "hrant, what I lack is what Charles_E referred to, the deep knowledge of a
    few really good typefaces. Right now I have a broad knowledge of a broad set of
    typefaces. What I was hoping to achieve was a way to force myself to gain a deeper
    understanding of the type I work with. However I'm quickly learning that this
    will not be as easy as I'd thought. Because while great typefaces for print are
    well known and well critiqued, type for web (apart from system fonts) is in its
    infancy and licensing is all over the place. As it stands now I'll be lucky to
    work with fonts even half as good as what have been developed for print, at least
    for the next few years.\r\n\r\nI'm appreciative for everyone's input, I realize
    now my potential new-years resolution was off base. I'm formulating a new one
    now which will hopefully get me where I want to be.\r\n\r\nThanks again for all
    the great feedback!\r\n\r\n-Moe"
  created: '2012-11-26 06:13:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Admitting it's hard to really know a typeface is great. The problem is claiming
    that limiting them is a Good Thing, instead of realizing it might be a necessary
    evil. An even bigger problem is saying that <em>everybody</em> needs to use few
    typefaces.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-26 17:13:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Asking type designers about using fewer fonts is sort of fruitless. They
    tend see it as a loss of income.</em>\r\n\r\nBefore I became a type designer I
    was an art director of the \u201Cso many \uFB02avors, so little time\u201D persuasion.\r\nSo
    my taste for variety has nothing to do with income.\r\n(Blame the Beatles for
    indoctrinating me with eclecticism.)"
  created: '2012-11-26 21:20:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, any reply is going to get disagreement, but I'm a big boy, so here's
    an example.\r\n\r\nFar as I'm concerned, Merlo work fine on a coated stock. But
    not on uncoated, if set large than 10 point, and at 10-point, it is hard to read
    for anyone of the eyeglass generation.\r\n\r\nSame holds true with a number of
    Adobe's medium weights. Far as I'm concerned, the \"regular\" weights in .otf
    were set up for best appearance when laser printers were used to output the type.
    Probably not a bad decision on Adobe's part. For book fonts, Adobe assumed coated
    stock, and gave us the medium weights. But they're usually too heavy when used
    on uncoated sheets, where the ink spreads more.\r\n\r\nIt really is a matter of
    how the ink is applied to and taken by the paper.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nType that
    looks good on a laser printer will be a bit weak if printed offset, on uncoated
    \ paper, and 2400+ dpi with direct-to-plate plates. If you go back to when PostScript
    was first printed without an intervening repro stage, and again when direct-to-plate
    technology came out, you'll see all sorts of complaints about type being too thin
    & spindly, even though it looked good on lasers. Usually the printer was blamed,
    but it wasn't the printer's fault, it was the type publishers. Remember that with
    DTP, the halftones are in the same file, and dotgain has to be minimized. Simply
    increasing the exposure when burning the plate isn't an option for the printer.\r\n\r\nThat's
    an old argument, and the counterargument today is everybody's eyes have adjusted
    to thinner, weaker type. Not a very good counterargument, IMSLTHO.\r\n\r\n* *
    *\r\n\r\nAs for \"understanding\" a typeface, Rich Hendel remarked that with Trinite,
    he could steal Richard Eckersley text specifications, item for item, and the book
    still wouldn't look right. I know what he means, and can't explain it, either.\r\n\r\nBroadening
    that to a more reasonable position, there will be certain measure/size/leading/margin
    relationships that work better than others with individual types. Varying one
    does NOT mean a simple scaling of the others. When you go from a 6-1/8 x 9-1/4
    to a 6x9, or have to get a few more/less characters on a page, what do you do?
    That's where having a type in your fingers pays off.\r\n\r\n<cite>Edit:</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    do know a couple book designers who could just take a font & make it work. During
    the 1980s and 1990s, the designer who got the most books in the AAUP Book Show
    for any given year was usually either Richard Eckersley, Rich Hendel, or Mary
    Mendell (an alphabetical sorting). Mary could, and did, make just about anything
    work well."
  created: '2012-11-28 02:13:41'
- author:
    name: dickface
    picture: 126048
  body: "The only typeface you will ever need\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DICKFACE_preview_5200.gif]\r\n\r\nwww.dickface.me"
  created: '2012-12-04 17:32:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: (._.)
  created: '2012-12-04 20:15:00'
date: '2012-11-20 00:59:38'
title: New Years Resolution - A typface diet

---
