---
author:
  name: shivat
body: Anyone knows what was the main typeface that was used during WWII and Nazi?
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "If you mean the typical German blackletter typefaces created at that time.
    Here are some of the most used:\r\n\r\nTannenberg (1933\u20131935), Erich Meyer\r\nNational
    (1934),  Walter H\xF6hnisch\r\nElement (1934),  Max Bittrof\r\nPotsdam (1934),
    \ Robert Golpon\r\nGotenburg (1935),  Friedrich Heinrichen\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 14:09:07'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "They had a book specifying every detail:\r\nhttp://uploading.com/files/get/82d26574/Organisationsbuch_der_NSDAP_3._Auflage_1937_678_S._Scan_Fraktur.pdf\r\n\r\nLooks
    like National"
  created: '2012-11-22 14:30:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The most \"distilled\" style was Schaftstiefelgrotesk (AKA \"jackboot grotesk\").\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/12130\r\nhttp://luc.devroye.org/fonts-61629.html\r\n\r\nI
    would consider Tannenberg the best representative.\r\n\r\nBTW the style is now
    used by Neo-Nazis:\r\nhttp://aryanwear.com/index.php/default/\r\n\r\nHowever the
    Nazis later denounced blackletter and switched to Roman.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 15:11:00'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "<However the Nazis later denounced blackletter and switched to Roman.>\r\n\r\nAnd
    to Futura, much to the dislike of Paul Renner \u2026"
  created: '2012-11-22 15:33:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "After the war, Jan Tschichold did a <em>volte-face</em> against Modernism,
    considering it to be a totalitarian exercise in social engineering, and disliking
    his previous role as its f\xFChrer.\r\n\r\nAnd who are today\u2019s exponents
    of totalitarian typography?\r\nMicrosoft of course, with a corporate rather than
    political agenda, distributing Arial, Comic Sans, Verdana and Georgia to the world
    as Core TrueType web faces.\r\nBut that situation has receded with the introduction
    of @font-face."
  created: '2012-11-22 18:54:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Nick, what''s your source for Tschichold considering Modernism as you describe?
    In <em>The Form of the Book,</em> as I recall, he explains his turn away from
    asymmetric typography in terms of how difficult it is to do well and hence how
    it is ill-suited to design specification of the kind he was working on for Penguin.
    [This is ironic considering the association of specification with modernism in
    other areas: in essence, Tschichold was claiming that Modernist typography was
    too craft-like, requiring a developed sensitivity and experienced ''feel'' for
    the best results.]'
  created: '2012-11-22 19:17:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Accusing MS of fascism is really out there. To me MS is one of the best things
    to happen to typography in the past decade or two.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 19:18:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the Core Fonts didn't replace anything, they created a new solution.
    It was like adding plumbing to a frontier town.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 19:50:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You don\u2019t think the TrueType core web fonts were totalitarian?\r\n(And
    I made the point metaphorically, comparing a corporate monopoly to a political
    one: 10 years ago Internet Explorer had over 95% of the world market in browsers,
    hence the dominance of the Core TT fonts, bundled with IE.)  \r\nThey were just
    about the only text fonts used on the Web until @fontface, and that as a result
    of Microsoft's market dominance, particularly with its web browser after Netscape
    had been put to bed.\r\nSure, Microsoft has done lots of good for typography,
    but as they say, Mussolini made the trains run on time."
  created: '2012-11-22 19:55:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A company town.
  created: '2012-11-22 19:56:11'
- author:
    name: shivat
  body: "Thanks everyone for your comments/information. My main theme for this paper
    I'm writing is the influence and development of typeface during WWII as a tool
    for propaganda and its influence. So basically I am going to consider the following
    points:\r\n-improvement of type industry\r\n-effect of typefaces in delivering
    propaganda\r\n-Psychological effect of particular typefaces they are using and
    the reason they designed those specific typefaces\r\nBasically I'm trying to create
    a timeline.\r\n@Ralf h. : Thanks very much for the information and the dates.
    Definitely helps a lot."
  created: '2012-11-22 19:56:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, I can\u2019t locate that quote right now, it was perhaps in the Ruari
    McLean biography."
  created: '2012-11-22 20:00:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"You don\u2019t think the TrueType core web fonts were totalitarian [Microsoft's
    market dominance-related squat]?\"\r\n\r\nHu?\r\n\r\nIn 1986, Adobe published
    their first PS printer boards, which at Steve Jobs insistence, contained Linotype
    fonts, and one they made themselves.\r\n\r\nThen in '88 or so, Apple relicensed
    the same designs on the same widths from Linotype, for TT development in Mac OS
    VII.\r\n\r\nThen in '90, or so, MS licensed the same designs on the same widths
    from Monotype, in TT for Windows 3.0. \r\n\r\nThen, the web was founded in '94
    based on default fonts and them yoyos would have used anything. \r\n\r\nSounds
    like democracy to me. "
  created: '2012-11-22 20:02:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Posters were the primary medium of graphic propaganda.\r\nAnd during WWII
    they used lettering rather than typefaces.\r\nGermany wasn\u2019t the only country
    with an of\uFB01cial program of propaganda posters.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36966"
  created: '2012-11-22 20:05:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Sounds like democracy to me.</em>\r\n\r\n95+% of the browser market sounds
    like monopoly to me, which can happen in a democracy.\r\nThat is why Verdana and
    Georgia were everywhere."
  children:
  - author:
      name: dberlow
    body: Nick... Depends on who made the decision. 95%? Hmmm.
    created: '2012-11-23 07:09:08'
  created: '2012-11-22 20:08:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Verdana and Georgia were everywhere because Microsoft's license for them enabled
    them to be very widely distributed <em>independently of the MS browser</em>, including
    by third parties. If anything, the distribution model for Verdana and Georgia
    undermined MS's browser share, since they could be used to display text of the
    same quality in any browser.
  created: '2012-11-22 20:16:27'
- author:
    name: shivat
  body: Can we say that their typeface reflected Nazi's official ideology?
  created: '2012-11-22 20:23:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nonetheless, they were distributed with IE, and 95% of browsers in use were
    IE.\r\nTherefore web designers were sure that 95% of their target users had the
    fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 20:28:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Can we say that their typeface reflected Nazi's official ideology?</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    but you would have to do so in relation to the concept of V\xF6lkisch.\r\nBut
    note that the Blackletter style is not inherently fascist, only in conjunction
    with its traditional use in Germany. And as I suggested in the linked thread above,
    because the communists had adopted the modernist sans as their style.\r\nElsewhere
    in non-fascist countries, they had their own folksy culture, such as Little England
    with its Olde Shoppes with \u201COld English\u201D blackletter.\r\nIn the Anglosphere,
    blackletter was popular for newspaper mastheads, e.g.\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/judea_declares_war_Large_5183.png]"
  created: '2012-11-22 20:36:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Shiva, make sure to get a copy of Bain and Shaw's \"Blackletter: Type and
    National Identity\".\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Blackletter style is not inherently fascist</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand the rigidity of Schaftstiefelgrotesk does fit...\r\nIt's hard to
    imagine the Nazis going for something round and plump!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: shivat
    body: 'Thanks hrant, I will definitely use it for my paper, the other book I''m
      also using for the research is Paul Renner: the art of typography, have you
      heard of it? '
    created: '2012-11-22 21:25:36'
  created: '2012-11-22 20:52:03'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: Blackletter typefaces have a rich and beautiful history. It always makes me
    very sad to see people associate them with WWII and WWII only. That is soooo unfair,
    and these typefaces do not deserve such ignorance.
  created: '2012-11-22 21:15:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've handled it (to observe Burke's execution of optical scaling) but not
    read it.\r\n\r\nPike, I agree. That's why I always mention that the Nazis were
    in fact disloyal to blackletter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-23 00:59:29'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "You can see some excerpts here of Hitler's edict wherein he banned blackletter
    in favor of Roman type:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.quora.com/Typefaces/Is-it-true-that-Hitlers-Third-Reich-favored-Gothic-style-typefaces\r\n\r\nThe
    whole letter is reproduced in Bain and Shaw's book Hrant mentioned."
  created: '2012-11-23 03:02:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@J Weltin:\r\n<cite>And to Futura, much to the dislike of Paul Renner \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    The instructions inside the lid of the Enigma are in Futura."
  created: '2012-11-23 03:08:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>some excerpts here of Hitler's edict</em>\r\n\r\nTechnically Martin Bormann's
    edict, although presumably at Hitler's direction."
  created: '2012-11-23 03:33:55'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "@ John Hudson\r\n<cite>Nick, what's your source for Tschichold considering
    Modernism as you describe? In The Form of the Book, as I recall, he explains his
    turn away from asymmetric typography in terms of how difficult it is to do well
    and hence how it is ill-suited to design specification of the kind he was working
    on for Penguin.</cite>\r\n\r\nI read this from Tschichold, too. It might have
    been part of the famous Bill ./. Tschichold dispute. I am not sure. Need to loaf
    through a lot of magazines to find this source."
  created: '2012-11-23 08:04:00'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "I never really understood this edict anyway. After all, Hitler was a racist,
    and he wanted to promote everything German as being superior. Why, then, would
    he ban something so obviously viewed upon as German (although not true as such,
    as there was no Germany before 1871, and blackletter fonts were used in many countries
    all over Europe during the course of history), and go with something relating
    to Latin origin (the Romans, and therefore, from his perverted point of view,
    the wrong race).\r\n\r\nI mean, Stalin, who was not only a communist, but also
    a nationalist, would never have replaced Cyrillic with Mongolian now, would he?
    \r\n\r\nI heard that somehow Hitler thought that especially the Schwabacher was
    created by a Jew, which later turned out not to be true - can anyone enlighten
    me on that point?\r\n\r\n@hrant - thanks for pointing that out. I just LOVE Blackletter
    typefaces, as well as old German handwritings, and usually designs containing
    such fonts are being rejected because of \"Nazi associations\" :-/ "
  created: '2012-11-23 08:36:21'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "By the way, I am thinking of making a S\xFCtterlin handwriting font, simply
    because I cannot find a really nice one. Anyone have any suggestions - maybe I
    simply wasn't looking at the right types."
  created: '2012-11-23 08:37:29'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> -Psychological effect of particular typefaces they are using and the reason
    they designed those specific typefaces\r\n\r\nOur ancestors have been driven into
    madness by diabolical type.\r\nThat is one of the dark secrets about WW II.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the horror is still [[http://www.tsvniesky.de/sponsoren/hasseroeder.jpg|amongst
    us]]"
  created: '2012-11-23 09:28:09'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "@Werfer\r\n\r\nThe Nazis didn\u2019t want to use blackletters anymore because
    the rest of Europe didn\u2019t use them much and switched a while before to Roman
    letters. After all, the Nazis wanted to be the most modern people in the world,
    so blackletters did not mirror their superiority. That they originated from the
    Jews was just a pretense to get rid of the blackletters as soon as possible. The
    Jews were blamed for everything in Nazi Germany. There is no blackletter tradition
    in the Jewish script, as far as i know. It was only a cheap excuse \u2013 and
    a ridiculous one."
  created: '2012-11-23 11:40:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Werfer:\r\n<cite>Why, then, would he ban something so obviously viewed upon
    as German</cite>\r\n\r\nThe usual answer was that using Fraktur made German propaganda
    unreadable to foreign-language audiences. So they made up a story about Fraktur
    really being a \"Schwabacher-Jewish\" design.\r\n\r\nOf course, that begs a question:
    why on Earth not just continue using Fraktur for German, and Roman type for printing
    in other languages? But I think the answer is clear: Germany under the Nazis was
    such an absolute dictatorship that it was not enough to make a more sensible rule;
    everything had to be black and white, all-or-nothing, to fit with the desired
    mentality of obedience without thought."
  created: '2012-11-23 11:45:31'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I never really understood this edict anyway.</cite> &#91;Werfer&#93;\r\n\r\nYou
    can find on Wikipedia a statement that Hitler would have made as early as 1934
    in the Reichstag; here is the English translation from the article <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antiqua\u2013Fraktur_dispute\">Antiqua
    Fraktur dispute</a>\r\n<blockquote>\r\nYour alleged gothic internalisation does
    not fit well in this age of steel and iron, glass and concrete, of womanly beauty
    and manly strength, of head raised high and intention defiant... In a hundred
    years, our language will be the European language. The nations of the east, the
    north and the west will, to communicate with us, learn our language. The prerequisite
    for this: The script called Gothic is replaced by the script we have called Latin
    so far...\r\n</blockquote>\r\nFor the German version, see <a href=\"http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antiqua-Fraktur-Streit#Erlass_zur_alleinigen_Unterrichtung_der_lateinischen_Schreibschrift_als_neuer_.E2.80.9Edeutscher_Normalschrift.E2.80.9C\">Erlass
    zur alleinigen Unterrichtung der lateinischen Schreibschrift als neuer \u201Edeutscher
    Normalschrift\u201C</a>.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-23 11:50:57'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<em>@ Pablo Impallari</em>\r\nThis \"Organisationshandbuch\" is exactly what
    its title says, an overview of the structure and subdivisions of this party. It
    shows emblems etc. by which these are identified. This does not make it a design
    manual though. (Even if e.g. Mr Heller thinks so.)\r\n\r\n<em>@ John Hudson</em>\r\nHello
    John, Nick is right about Tschichold's remark about New Typography and totalitarianism.
    See the chapter \"Exile\" in Christopher Burke's \"Active Literature\": \"Its
    [New Typography's] attitude conforms most particularly to the German bent for
    the absolute, and its military will to order and claim to sole domination reflect
    those fearful components of the German character that unleashed Hitler's rule
    and the Second World War. This became clear to me only much later, in democratic
    Switzerland.\" (P.293. From Tschichold's \"Glaube und Wirklichkeit\" which was
    part of the Tschichold/Bill dispute as J\xFCrgen said.)"
  created: '2012-11-23 12:07:56'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Thanks Karsten for confirming that i remembered it right (no searching for
    magazines \u2026)."
  created: '2012-11-23 12:43:46'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Andreas St\xF6tzner: \xABOur ancestors have been driven into madness by diabolical
    type. That is one of the dark secrets about WW II.\xBB\r\n\r\nI sure hope Guido
    Knopp and Christian Br\xFCckner will enlighten us on this matter in their current
    ZDF history soap opera \xABGeheimnisse des Zweiten Weltkriegs\xBB :) Maybe Lovecraft
    was right in that certain shapes are intrinsically evil after all ..."
  created: '2012-11-23 13:44:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Karsten.\r\n\r\nTschichold's comment seems to me to be really about
    the spirit under which the New Typography was undertaken: the radical, ideological
    absolutism that not only puts forward something new but feels it necessary to
    denigrate that which came before. I don't think this is a particularly German
    characteristic or necessarily linked to totalitarianism, but I can understand
    how the experience of the Nazi years would have made it seem so to Tschichold.\r\n\r\nIt
    raises the question, of course, whether something like the New Typography could
    develop, as a set of design principles resulting in a graphic style, without this
    absolutism?"
  created: '2012-11-23 19:20:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I think the amusing thing about Tschichold is that he was equally dogmatic
    in his modernist and anti-modernist phases, at least in theory. In practice, he
    was a real master in whatever style he worked in. I think others did adopt the
    modernist style and adapt it. Didn't this evolve into the 'international style'
    of the '60s? It seems like every style has its fanatics, who use it badly or where
    it doesn't work, and eventually drive it out of fashion...
  created: '2012-11-23 19:34:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Andreas St\xF6tzner:\r\n<cite>Our ancestors have been driven into madness
    by diabolical type.</cite>\r\n\r\nI assume this is levity, even if devotion to
    Fraktur may be held by some to be a symptom of the madness of exaggerated nationalism.\r\n\r\nBut
    I know that it is claimed that many of the German people in the past were driven
    into madness by overly strict child-rearing practices; the book <em>Soul Murder</em>,
    for example, discussed this.\r\n\r\nEDIT: The one by Morton Schatzman, not the
    one by Leonard Sheingold."
  created: '2012-11-24 23:03:56'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Tschichold was a black/white kind of person throughout his life, and a pretty
    self-confident one.*\r\nWith this in mind, it indeed helps to not take every single
    word or argument too seriously (designers and arguments aren't necessarily best
    friends anyway) and read his comments as saying something about a certain spirit,
    as John said. I think there is something to it, at a more abstract level, in that
    New Typography and Nazism are 'movements' and as such share some common features.\r\n\r\n*
    Bill, appalled by what he considered as a reactionary move of Tschichold, started
    his attack on Tschichold by referring to him as \"one of the known typography
    theorists\". Tschichold, in his reply, was not shy to point out that he is not
    \"one of\" but \"by my best knowledge the only one\".\r\n(Today I found a copy
    of Bosshard's <a href=\"http://www.amazon.de/Typografiestreit-Moderne-Bill-kontra-Tschichold/dp/3721208331/\"
    target=\"_blank\"><em>Bill kontra Tschichold</em></a>. Bosshard's essay and Hochuli's
    shorter afterword provide some information about the context, including some funny
    quotes from a letter of Bill to Paul Rand about the matter. Recommended.)"
  created: '2012-11-26 21:05:28'
- author:
    name: danielsabino
    picture: 121737
  body: How is the acceptance of them in Germany? These kind of typeface is prohibited?
    How far the connection with Nazis is a problem? I feel that outside Germany there's
    no problem using them.
  created: '2012-12-13 22:41:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From what I've observed in the past few years even inside Germany things
    have been -thankfully- easing up.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-13 23:40:17'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Of course no typefaces are forbidden in Germany! :-)\r\n\r\nStill, the association
    of blackletter and Nazi regime remains and that\u2019s what makes them hard to
    use. \r\nSeeing an old rural tavern sign set in blackletter is no problem, as
    well as a fancy and colorful parfum ad or CD cover. \r\nBut if you set a regular
    black headline in a blackletter typeface, it's hard for a German not to make the
    association with radical right politics. \r\nI am currently setting a German typography
    magazine with blackletter headlines. Still feels strange. Even though I and my
    readers know that the connection of blackletter and Nazi regime is purely artificial.
    I gave the headlines a blue gradient to relieve my discomfort. ;-) This way it
    looks less like 1930s propaganda. "
  created: '2012-12-14 07:17:58'
- author:
    name: danielsabino
    picture: 121737
  body: Yeah, I understand. But that's really sad once Blackletters are (to my taste)
    more beautiful when in black color. I hope this feeling disappear in future German
    generations. The more we use it in different contexts, the faster it will disappear.
    Let's free those beautiful letterforms ;)
  created: '2012-12-14 20:02:17'
- author:
    name: danielsabino
    picture: 121737
  body: 'Note: in my first post I was referring specifically to those "jackboot grotesk",
    not Blackletters in general.'
  created: '2012-12-14 20:06:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em> I gave the headlines a blue gradient to relieve my discomfort. ;-) This
    way it looks less like 1930s propaganda.</em>\r\n\r\nThe design of the book <em>Fraktur
    mon amour</em> also cleverly subverted the National Socialist associations of
    blackletter."
  created: '2012-12-15 00:07:30'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: 'So did Albert Kapr in his design of <em><a href="http://dev.typophile.com/node/95086#comment-517100">Fraktur:
    Form und Geschichte der gebrochenen Schriften</a></em>.'
  created: '2012-12-15 01:06:59'
- author:
    name: danielsabino
    picture: 121737
  body: Well remembered, but this is also sad once this book is in German language
    only and they have no plans to translate it to english. Even so I am willing to
    buy it. An Oscar for anyone to translate it.
  created: '2012-12-15 01:44:35'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: All the frantic fascist font-captains, united in common hatred of the common
    people and horror at the rising tide of the mass revolutionary movement, have
    turned to typefaces to legalize their own destruction of proletarian organizations,
    and rouse the agitated petty-bourgeoise to chauvinistic fervor on behalf of the
    fight against the revolutionary way!
  created: '2012-12-15 05:21:07'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Hrant: You have got to read Christopher Burke's \u201CPaul Renner: the art
    of typography\u201D."
  created: '2012-12-15 12:33:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: .
  created: '2012-12-15 20:13:53'
date: '2012-11-22 12:21:28'
node_type: forum
title: nazi typography

---
