---
author:
  name: grahamclif
body: "The Type Directors Club has been promoting excellence in typography for over
  65 years. This years deadline for entries is December 14, 2012. A list of international
  judges have been assembled to judge the best work of 2012. \r\nCategories include
  experimental, digital, self-promotion, posters, motion, student etc.\r\n\r\nhttps://www.tdc.org/type-competition/#.ULUXmaWhD8s"
comments:
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Awesome!\r\n\r\nJust a question... does the TDC generate money from the book
    or traveling exhibition(s) of the winning submissions?\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-27 20:46:32'
- author:
    name: grahamclif
  body: "The Type Directors Club is the leading international organization whose purpose
    is to support excellence in typography, both in print and on screen. Founded in
    1946 by some of the industry\u2019s leading practitioners, the TDC\u2019s earliest
    membership included Aaron Burns, Will Burtin, Freeman Craw, Louis Dorfsman, Gene
    Federico, Edward M. Gottschall, Herb Lubalin, Edward Rondthaler, Bradbury Thompson,
    and Hermann Zapf. With this solid historical background, the TDC today represents
    the best of today\u2019s type design and type use.\r\n\r\nThe TDC holds two yearly
    type competitions: one for the use of type and the letterform in design and the
    other, typeface design. The winners are reproduced in our Typography Annual, published
    by HarperCollins Publishers, as well as displayed in seven exhibits that travel
    worldwide. In addition to celebrating outstanding achievements, the typography
    competitions and resulting annuals serve as important historical records of typographic
    trends, and are an invaluable resource for both designers and scholars.\r\n\r\nEducation
    has always been an important part of the Type Directors Club\u2019s mission. The
    TDC began offering lectures in 1947, the second year of the Club\u2019s existence.
    Called Ten Talks on Type, the lectures were given by James Secrest, Arnold Bank,
    Gene Ettenberg, Charles Felton, Milton Zudeck, O. Alfred Dickman, Joseph Weiler,
    Frank Powers, and Hal Zamboni. The series\u2019 success led to it becoming an
    annual event. In 1958, the Club extended its reach to an international day-long
    seminar at the Silvermine Artists Guild in New Canaan, Connecticut, which drew
    500 attendees.\r\n\r\nIn 1959, the TDC ran Typography USA at the Biltmore Hotel
    in Manhattan. Speakers included Saul Bass, Herbert Bayer, Lester Beall, Will Burtin,
    Lou Dorfsman, Alvin Eisenmann, Gene Federico, William Golden, Allen Hurlburt,
    Leo Lionni, Herb Lubalin, Paul Rand, Ladislav Sutnar, and Bradbury Thompson.\r\n\r\nAmong
    the many speakers and teachers in the intervening years have been Aaron Burns,
    Klaus Schmidt, Ed Gottschall, Tom Carnase, Bruno Brugnatelli, Milton Glaser, Hermann
    Zapf, Eileen Hedy Schultz, Ed Benguiat, Olaf Leu, Martin Solomon, G\xFCnter Gerhard
    Lange, and Freeman Craw.\r\n\r\nThe current lecture and class schedule offered
    by the TDC continues apace. The Education Committee has been developing course
    offerings at all levels of proficiency that reflect today\u2019s needs and interests,
    and the Event Committee continues scheduling monthly Type Salons in our Manhattan
    space.\r\n\r\nThe TDC is the home for typography\u2014a physical meeting place
    and a strong professional affiliation. We welcome all in advertising, communications,
    education, marketing, and publishing who have a keen interest in type and the
    written word: graphic designers, art directors, editors, multimedia professionals,
    students, and entrepreneurs.\r\n\r\nThe TDC is a not for profit organization."
  created: '2012-11-27 21:31:48'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thanks for the reply, I'll take that as a yes.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-27 21:39:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those are some good judges!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-27 22:11:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Am I correct in reading that I pay to enter, and if I win, I pay <em>again</em>?
  created: '2012-11-28 21:38:00'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "That's my point Chris. I was a Governor of a national not-for-profit organization
    so I know a lot about the sort of  parameters within which the TDC can operate.\r\n\r\nHence
    my question...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Just a question... does the TDC generate money
    from the book or traveling exhibition(s) of the winning submissions? </blockquote>\r\n\r\nNotice
    I didn't get a direct answer to my question.\r\n\r\nAnd did I miss the TDC's early
    bird post? \r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-29 02:42:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed punishing the winners is the first thing I would change. I've been
    saying that since the late 90s.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: grahamclif
    body: "Charging a nominal publication/hanging fee on the winners work enables
      us to keep the initial entry fee price down which we hope encourages more entries.
      \r\n\r\nThe TDC entry fees are very competitive with the other award organizations."
    created: '2012-11-29 16:58:44'
  created: '2012-11-29 03:00:11'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Since the late 90s? Hm. \r\n\r\nIf this org is anything that I'm familiar
    with I would say that the TDC is perpetual financial woes ...in fact they might
    be in a downward spiral. These sort of orgs have two main problems. Firstly it
    looks inward ...instead of looking outward. Secondly it has an arrogance that
    comes from a time when it was the only show in town. And, it may very well be
    top heavy.\r\n\r\nJust sayin'\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-29 05:02:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's been around for a while, and it has some great members. Financial troubles
    come and go - that doesn't really determine the core spirit of what is essentially
    a cultural organization.\r\n\r\nMuch of my own exposure to the TDC has been via
    James Montalbano, which is of course pretty limiting. Now that James has gone
    postal I'm interested to see how perceptions -if only my own- will change. And
    hopefully they'll figure out ways to improve their competitions (like give the
    judges much more time).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-29 05:22:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Graham, could you explain the \"experimental\" category? Is that something
    new?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-29 14:09:58'
- author:
    name: grahamclif
  body: "Sure thing, experimental and unpublished categories were introduced in last
    years competition. We are intrigued to see what folks are coming up with when
    not toiling on client paying work.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-29 16:55:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Sorry to show up unannounced. \r\n\r\nOne of my colleagues tipped me off
    to this thread. I see not much has changed since I \"went postal\". Is that what
    it is Hrant? Deciding that reading your endless shit is \"going postal\" well
    if that is the case I'm surprised that the majority of the folks here have not
    \"gone postal\" already.\r\n\r\nRegarding \"improving\" the competition. Aren't
    you always going on about improving this or that? No skin off of your ass huh.
    Regarding the judges needing more time. This has been one of your idiot obsessions
    for years now. Hasn't it? Every year at the end of the competition, I ask the
    judges, \"Did you have enough time.\" Their answer, every year is \"Yes. Plenty
    of time, no reason to change the way this goes.\" \r\n\r\nWeren't you going to
    organize some special type design competition? I remember you going on and on
    about it a while ago. What happened? Too real for you?"
  created: '2012-11-29 18:20:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Graham, FYI I myself am only focusing on the type design part.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>keep
    the initial entry fee price down which we hope encourages more entries.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't mind let's do the math (although roughly). Last year there were 173
    entries and 13 winners. Choosing a mid-range entry (Type Family, Non-Member) this
    year's entry fee is $110 and the publication/hanging fee is $100. If you split
    13 \xD7 $100 = $1,300 into 173 you get $7.51. So if you charged $118 (instead
    of $110) to enter but did not charge a publication/hanging fee you'd about break
    even.\r\n\r\nNow, I have to agree that charging $8 more might reduce the number
    of entries, but maybe not worrying about the $100 fee for winning might offset
    that. But most of all: it's more straight-forward, more honest; right now it really
    feels like a \"hidden cost\" to some people (even though I admit it's not really
    hidden).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-29 22:39:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: If the incremental money is really funding the publication and hanging of
    the winners' works, it seems "more straightforward, more honest" to me to have
    those costs borne by those winners, rather than subsidized by the losers who get
    nothing out of it.
  created: '2012-11-29 23:04:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's a competition: losers aren't supposed to be rewarded, and winners aren't
    supposed to be punished. It's not the US tax system.  :-)\r\n\r\nThe one thing
    a loser should -and does- get is anonymity.\r\n\r\nBTW I can't think of any other
    type design competition that has ever charged winners anything. Is it common practice
    in other types of design competitions?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-29 23:39:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Personally, I\u2019ve always felt competitions cheapen the profession. I
    don\u2019t remember the last time I saw a surgery competition. And who would the
    judges be? The test patients ;P"
  created: '2012-11-30 01:09:58'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "If not adverse to paying my share ...just as long as TDC doesn't profit or
    gain, in any form, from the publication or the traveling exhibition of the winner
    work/property. Hence my original question. Why should I be /forced/ to pay for
    your profit/gain.\r\n\r\nCan I opt out of the publication and traveling exhibitions?\r\n\r\nThat
    would be my choice ...I've already won the prize ...and I opt out of the publication
    and the traveling road show.\r\n\r\nTake the cash and run!!!\r\n\r\nn.\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-30 01:11:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Why should I be /forced/ to pay for your profit/gain.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell,
    you're not forced to enter the competition. And I don't think anybody expects
    you to enter to make the TDC better off; people expect you to enter hoping to
    get something out of it. You know, a mutually-beneficial gambit.\r\n\r\nBTW, I
    do think \"the TDC is a not for profit organization\" is a pretty good answer
    to your question.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Can I opt out of the publication and traveling
    exhibitions?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOfficially, yes. But from what I understand (at
    least as of the last time I managed to \"extract\" the info) no winner has ever
    done that. So I guess that scenario hasn't been tested - but if push comes to
    shove I'd expect the TDC to exclude you lest it sets a damaging precedent.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    there's no cash - it's strictly fame & glory.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-30 01:51:56'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>BTW, there's no cash - it's strictly fame & glory.\r\n\r\nhhp</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMadness!!!\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-11-30 07:52:09'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  I don\u2019t remember the last time I saw a surgery competition\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but in the medical world there are various levels of certification, but in the
    U.S. there is no certification for designers; anyone can call themself a designer.
    So I think some professionals view awards as something to show clients as a way
    of validating their abilities. Contest fees are part of the cost of doing business."
  created: '2012-11-30 15:59:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I have no idea why Graham can't answer a direct question, but I'll share
    my understanding from the outside.\r\n\r\nThe entry fees cover the expenses of
    bringing the judges together for judging, which presumably include airfare, hotel
    and meals for those who are outside NYC.\r\n\r\nThe winners' fees contribute towards
    the expenses of mounting the traveling exhibit and showing it at other conferences
    and locations. For example, the TDC award winners are typically shown in a huge
    display at both TypeCon (somewhere in the US) and ATypI (somewhere else in the
    world).\r\n\r\nAs ATypI Treasurer, I can attest that ATypI pays a goodly chunk
    of the costs of getting the exhibit to our conference (this year was Hong Kong).
    However, my recollection is that we aren't normally covering all the costs. For
    example, the costs of actually printing each entry out as a big full-color poster...."
  created: '2012-12-01 02:41:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "@ Mr. Dean:\r\n<cite>Personally, I\u2019ve always felt competitions cheapen
    the profession.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo, what kind of measurements don't cheapen the
    profession?"
  created: '2012-12-01 02:56:52'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thanks Thomas, I'm cool with whatever... I understand it's all a labor of
    love anyways.\r\n\r\nHey Graham,  into which category should I enter a sculpture?
    Communication Design seems right. And for a historical reference ...think artist
    Robert Indiana's LOVE sculpture.\r\n\r\nEven though I'll have to pony up for the
    \ Jan. 15the submission deadline ...I think it's time to raise the bar.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-12-01 10:54:14'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "At the moment Graham is at an emergency meeting. He and all of the TDC Board
    are in a secret bunker dealing with sensitive global typographic issues. As a
    past president of the TDC I have been asked to answer.\r\n\r\nThe expenses don't
    go to offset the cost of THE traveling exhibit, they go to offset the costs of
    ALL the traveling exhibits, several of which travel around the world for several
    years, finally coming to rest at various places for permanent display. So the
    winner's hanging fees pay for the winning entries exposure via the traveling exhibits
    and publication in the annual \"Typography\". Quite a bargain when on thinks of
    the monthly cost of a full-page ad in one of the design magazines.\r\n\r\n@5star\r\nIf
    the sculpture is typographic in nature then enter it in Communications Design.
    If the sculpture is a set of letters that can be manipulated enter it into the
    Typeface Design.\r\n\r\nThe Typeface Design competition is exactly that, it is
    not a Font Software competition.\r\n\r\nGood luck.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-01 15:00:08'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'As a former winner of two, count ''em, two TDC awards, I can attest to the
    value of the cachet which attends such honors: they essentially launched my professional
    career. ''Nuff said?'
  created: '2012-12-01 15:58:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@charles_e: An honest day\u2019s wage for an honest day\u2019s work."
  created: '2012-12-01 19:47:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It seems to me that the questions for potential entrants are simply 'Do you
    think the possible kudos and exposure from being selected in the TDC competition(s)
    is worth the investment of the entry fee?' and 'Do you think being selected and
    having your work shown in the travelling exhibitions and the TDC annual is worth
    the investment of the hanging fee?' If the answer to either of these questions
    is 'No', or if you have a philosophical objection to competitions in general,
    don't enter. Clearly, the answer for many people is 'Yes', and the TDC competitions
    have been successful for many years.
  created: '2012-12-01 20:01:37'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thanks James, Comm. D. it is then... \r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>He and all of
    the TDC Board are in a secret bunker dealing with sensitive global typographic
    issues.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nlol\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-12-02 00:26:54'
- author:
    name: Arthus
    picture: 116411
  body: "Since there are also questions being answered:\r\n\r\nI wonder, I might have
    something to send this year (or otherwise next) but your fee system is a bit confusing:
    I have a typeface which can also be layered, should this count as a single entry?
    (since it is, the glyphs are stylistically not different, but can add up for an
    extra effect)\r\n\r\nPaying almost double for just this effect seems strange to
    me, since it's not really a family.\r\n\r\nI think the normal pricing isn't that
    bad looking at other competitions."
  created: '2012-12-02 00:51:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "@Arthus\r\nYour layered entry sounds like a single entry, since individual
    pieces cannot exist by themselves.\r\nIf it is published/released in 2012 then
    it has to be entered this year. If you hold off  until 2013 then it should be
    entered next year.\r\n\r\nMy advice to you and all entrants is to make your entry
    samples look as good as you can and show off the typeface in its very best light.
    Over the years I've seen so many entries fail because whoever put them together
    did the most minimum job. Just showing a character set is never going to get you
    very far, yet many entries do just that. A pity really.\r\n\r\nAnd with that please
    refrain from the \"All entries should be on a common template and exactly the
    same\". That was done the first year of the competition and I cannot tell you
    what a mind-numbing hell that was for the judges. The rules give the entrant wide
    latitude in creating the submission. If you are not a good typographer, by all
    means have a good typographer help you with the submission."
  created: '2012-12-02 03:15:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's entirely natural for a judge to be more amenable to selecting a typeface
    with a flashy specimen, but especially for a text face I think the onus is on
    the judges to figure out if it's actually good (although I agree that a simple
    charset is of course not enough). I don't think entrants should be punished for
    not having great skills in <em>using</em> type (or not being able to get such
    help) because that's not what the award is for. So it might be good to provide
    a decent template (maybe even require it) but also allow entrants to add anything
    they want. FWIW this is how the Granshan competition does it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-02 05:10:09'
- author:
    name: Yulia
    picture: 122305
  body: 'I have a question about showing a full character set. As I could understand
    from the rules one style should be placed on a single page of A3 format and there
    should be both character set and examples of using typeface. So what to do if
    the character set is large and you have a display font? There''s simply no space
    on the one page of A3 format. So is it possible to take 2 pages for the style
    or should I show a reduced character set? And what is more important (if I have
    to reduce something) a character set or examples of using?And if I use my type
    also in illustrations can I include it as an example? '
  created: '2012-12-02 10:54:58'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If the typeface is not presented in a way that allows the judges to see how
    it functions then they cannot judge its value. \r\n\r\nIt is not an alphabet drawing
    contest. \r\n\r\nDoing everything one can to present the entry in the best light
    is in the best interest of the entrant. I never said the specimen needed to be
    \"flashy\". It only needs to present the typeface in the best possible light.
    \r\n\r\nFor a text typeface, a well-set nicely spaced block of text would be appropriate.
    Setting a text typeface in text sizes would also be appropriate and necessary.
    A display design would require some display settings at display sizes.\r\n\r\n@Yulia\r\nUse
    as many pages as you feel is necessary to present the typeface in the best way."
  created: '2012-12-02 12:20:01'
- author:
    name: Yulia
    picture: 122305
  body: Thank you for the answer! And if I send a type system is it allowed to show
    text and display faces in use together? And is it necessary for all styles have
    the same character set or different sets are also allowed? Sorry for so many questions,
    I'm thinking of participation for the first time.
  created: '2012-12-02 12:52:40'
- author:
    name: Arthus
    picture: 116411
  body: "Thanks for the clarification! Also the 'as many pages' is a welcome clarification,
    I didn't know that.\r\n\r\nMy release isn't in my hands so that's why I was still
    not sure about this our next year, but yes I want to show it from it's best angle.
    Thankfully I have quite a few possibilities for specimen use.\r\n\r\nI must add
    about the layering: It doesn't have to be layered, but it's an extra feature which
    broadens the usability of the typeface. In that regard I could agree it's an extra
    'style'. But since there is no change to the glyphs themselves except for which
    part is 'filled' I'd say it's still the same."
  created: '2012-12-02 13:00:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "@Yulia\r\nYou are the designer. If you have determined that the text and
    display designs have different character sets, so be it. And yes, show the text
    and display being used together. Show the entire system off to the best of your
    ability."
  created: '2012-12-02 13:32:16'
- author:
    name: Sulekha Rajkumar
  body: "Hi Graham,\r\n\r\nJust wanted to know when submitting an entry in the packaging
    design category (Communication Design), is it ok if the images entered are 3D
    renders of the pack and not photographs of the pack itself? Reason being, the
    packs are distributed in another city and the contents are perishable (milk).
    So I can't get hold of the product to shoot it.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSulekha"
  created: '2012-12-04 10:55:43'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Graham is still in the typographic bunker.\r\n\r\nSulekha, If it is impossible
    to provide photographs of the packing then a high quality 3D rendering would be
    acceptable."
  created: '2012-12-04 13:35:16'
- author:
    name: Yulia
    picture: 122305
  body: "Graham, thank you for the answer, and could you also explain the procedure
    of payment, please? I haven't any credit card so I'm going to make a money order.
    It is written in the rules that If payment is made by money order it must be drawn
    on a U.S. bank. I'm not in the USA and does it mean that I have to find a department
    of a US bank in my city and send a payment to the TDC address (347 West 36th St.
    Suite 603 \u2022 New York NY 10018 USA)? Or should I send my order to some special
    US bank where TDC has an account (and then where to find out the requisites of
    it)? I can't understand it, please help to clear out. I want to be sure that my
    order will reach the right address.   "
  created: '2012-12-05 16:25:15'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "\u042E\u043B\u044F, drop me a line off-list, okay?"
  created: '2012-12-05 17:56:32'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>Graham is still in the typographic bunker.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis
    typographic bunker is beginning to intrigue me...\r\n\r\nn.\r\n "
  created: '2012-12-05 18:45:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@Yulia: Please have financial discussions with banking information &c privately.'
  created: '2012-12-05 20:01:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"This typographic bunker is beginning to intrigue me...\"\r\n\r\nEveryone
    should have one. I have seven cans of dehydrated quads and five boxes of smoked
    line-to's, in mine. "
  created: '2012-12-06 08:38:57'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Further information regarding what the \"Publication/Hanging\" fees pay for\r\n\r\nTDC
    traveling exhibits.\r\nThere are seven (7) traveling shows.\r\nNorth America\r\nEngland/France\r\nGermany\r\nSpain\r\nRussia\r\nJapan\r\nAsia\r\n\r\nThat
    and publication in the annual \"Typography\""
  created: '2012-12-06 16:24:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure. Just bump up the entry fee by $8 and that way people -who are only
    entering because they think they can win- get a more realistic feeling (that's
    all it is) for what they're agreeing to.\r\n\r\nBTW it would be gracious -not
    to mention conducive to [even] better results- to make it easier for non-Americans
    to enter. For one thing not everybody can get their credit card to work...  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-06 16:43:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "If there were no entry/hanging fee, would the additional submissions make
    for more publishable content = more sales of the \u201CTypography\u201D publication?"
  created: '2012-12-06 17:28:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only the winners are published, and they might not want too many winners,
    so not necessarily.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-06 17:43:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Perhaps they could change who is published? Just making up ideas. Myself,
    I\u2019d be more likely to spend money on an issue with the top 100, and the winners,
    than just the winners."
  created: '2012-12-06 18:05:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Losers don't like that fact advertised.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chris Dean
      picture: 111971
    body: "Possible, but I\u2019m thinking to myself, \u201CI\u2019m a young student,
      I didn\u2019t win, but I still get to see my work in print\u2026\u201D That\u2019s
      not entirely implausible."
    created: '2012-12-06 18:16:29'
  created: '2012-12-06 18:08:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Chris, Hrant\r\n\r\nYou should start you own competition and bring all your
    ideas to fruition.\r\n\r\nGood luck to all the entrants. I'm done here."
  created: '2012-12-06 18:53:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. the Typography annual: I really wish there were an off-print version
    that contained only the winners of the type design competition. The books are
    thick, and mostly filled with graphic design work that is of no interest to me
    personally. I can't justify giving them bookshelf space, so donate most volumes
    to our local library, and send any containing my own work to my mother, the Hudson
    family archivist.\r\n\r\nI'd really like to have a slim publication that just
    showed the winners of the type design competition each year, for which I would
    gladly find shelf space. Collectively, they would represent an important record
    of developing trends in type design over the past couple of decades."
  created: '2012-12-06 18:58:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I second that!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-06 19:05:35'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>Everyone should have one. I have seven cans of dehydrated quads
    and five boxes of smoked line-to's, in mine.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOnce again I
    see that I am left with playing ketchup. Alrighty then....\r\n\r\nDear Santa,\r\n\r\nAll
    I want for this Christmas is a Typophile Bunker. In the center of the bunker I
    would like an aquarium stocked full with Rainbow Squids ...from which I could
    ask for my inks or course. And  I would also like a small forest of Mulberry trees
    ...from which a could produce my paper.  Songs birds that know every song ever
    (including all of James Brown hits) ...and I would also like to have a couple
    of the funniest lions as friends.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nMilk and cookies await.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-07 06:11:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FYI:\r\nhttp://www.tdc.org/tdc-typeface-design-winners-2013/\r\n\r\nCongrats
    to John, Tim and Frode!\r\n\r\nSome questions:\r\n- Will we get to see online
    samples?\r\n- Was Brill substantially improved in 2012?\r\n- For the Judge Choice
    selections, is it possible to find out who picked what? The TDC did include that
    info in previous years.\r\n- Looking at #6: why would the KABK not commission
    one -or all- of its fabulous (I don't mean that at all sarcastically) type design
    teachers to make their typeface?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-18 22:22:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Was Brill substantially improved in 2012?</em>\r\n\r\nImproved over what?
    The official release date of the family was November 2012. Earlier, beta versions
    of the roman and italic were available, but the formal release wasn't until the
    bold weights were added, and timed to coincide with the beginning of Brill's 330th
    anniversary celebrations at the Boerhaave Museum, 9 November 2012."
  created: '2013-04-19 00:33:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't realize all the previous versions were betas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-19 01:51:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Brill started working with trial  versions of the roman and italic in Summer
    2011, but their CEO didn't want to make any official release until the bold and
    bold italic weights were finished (with which I had help from Alice Savoie last
    year). So the finalised EULA, official website, etc. were all prepared for the
    launch of the anniversary celebrations last November. Unusually for a typeface
    design, Brill gave the project a lot of publicity while it was in progress, in
    their company reports and at book fairs and conferences, so that might be why
    it seems to have been around longer. It's been a part of my life since 2008!
  created: '2013-04-19 03:05:34'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: It's one of the very few fonts that works well both in big and small sizes.
  created: '2013-04-22 05:04:44'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<blockquote>- Looking at #6: why would the KABK not commission one -or all-
    of its fabulous (I don't mean that at all sarcastically) type design teachers
    to make their typeface?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDave Foster was a student of KABK.
    \xABClient: KABK\xBB probably means he designed the typeface as a student project."
  created: '2013-04-22 09:56:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah (thanks).\r\nLet me update the Clients section of my r\xE9sum\xE9 then...
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-22 14:22:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "[Punishing, postal, and ungracious all may look \u201Cnormal\u201D written
    here, but just to be clear, that is not the TDC way in my experience. In fact,
    I don\u2019t know anyone who\u2019s been involved either as entrant, winner, loser,
    adviser, caterer, participant, or judge, who share these terms in describing it
    or its competition. Thanks!]"
  created: '2013-04-22 18:56:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From what I've seen the TDC -which must certainly be greater than any of
    its individual members- consistently does fabulous work, and I think we're very
    lucky to have this type design competition. FWIW over the years I've very rarely
    seen a winner that I for one thought didn't deserve it. But anyway if we all agreed
    on everything life would be dead.\r\n\r\nThat said, nobody/nothing is perfect,
    and to me it just seems to make sense to raise the entry fee by a few dollars
    to avoid charging the winners extra.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, to me it also makes sense
    to admit (at least to oneself) and thereby not defend (not even tacitly) the punishing,
    postal and ungracious behavior of a personal friend and/or someone with whom one
    merely shares a -perceived- antagonist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-22 19:53:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But anyway if we all agreed on everything life would be dead.\"\r\n\r\nIs
    that so? Subtracting the posts trolled in by the usual rebels-without-a-clue,
    folks who wanted answers came in, asked their questions, got responses and did
    their thing. I'd say \"that's life\"."
  created: '2013-04-23 13:25:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Really, David? I'm not even allowed to say it's OK that people disagree?\r\n\r\nAnd
    in turn you see nothing wrong with the way James has historically behaved, online
    in general and on Typophile in particular? Do you have zero space in your heart
    for even-handedness?\r\n\r\nBTW if we assume that the TDC competition isn't perfect
    (since nothing is perfect) there's no way to know how it can be improved without
    engaging in discourse; you can never know who <em>didn't</em> get their answers,
    who ended up <em>not</em> submitting a worthy design. It's a classic delusion
    to accuse people who voice a complaint of being the only ones with that complaint.
    Specifically here I know for a fact that I'm not the only one who thinks charging
    the winners extra is a bad idea; I'm just the one of the few who sees value in
    bringing it up in public.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-23 14:38:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>BTW if we assume that the TDC competition isn't perfect ... there's
    no way to know how it can be improved without engaging in discourse</em>\r\n\r\nIts
    also worth pointing out that <em>you</em> -- and I, for that matter -- have no
    way to know everything that is involved in the reckoning of the TDC competition
    planning, finances, etc.. We don't know all the factors. We don't know what other
    options have been considered and rejected because they didn't add up.\r\n\r\nAs
    a winner, I find the hanging fee is a minor element of the overall cost: very
    minor compared to the cost of producing the required panels and getting them delivered
    to the TDC. That is the real financial hit for winners, and one that entrants
    had better be aware of when making a submission."
  created: '2013-04-23 18:32:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're right that I/we don't know. Hence the usefulness of asking (and the
    value of transparency). For example two of my four points above have yet to be
    addressed, and there's no way I'm the only one wondering. Nobody should be very
    upset over unanswered questions in a case like this, but it remains a missed opportunity.\r\n\r\nThe
    hanging fee would be a minor/worthwhile expense for me too. And yes, entrants
    should be aware of it. But to me it still does more harm than good; it just seems
    mildly perverse to charge more to people whose work you think deserves recognition.
    So: is instead raising the entry fee by ~$8 worse or better?\r\n\r\nBTW this isn't
    the biggest problem I see with this competition, it's just by far the easiest
    one to fix. You've mentioned something worthwhile too: publishing the TDC2 results
    separately. I hope they consider that idea seriously (and don't attack you for
    voicing it).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-23 21:20:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I'm just the one of the few who sees value in bringing it up in public.\"
    \r\n\r\n[Special few] \r\n\r\nSo, chosen one, besides the unhidden hidden fee
    being less hidden, making the judges with whom you've rarely disagreed spend more
    time, charging everyone more to enter, and hoping for improved perceptions of
    TDC by yourself and others now that James is no longer helping so domineeringly
    with the contest, and even if you are not even a member, and just want to stir
    up unwarranted distrust and suspicion using your freedom in public... you should
    write to Carol, who I'm sure you know, because she might help you change things
    as a non-member type designer helping other non-member type designers more easily
    make up the rules to best help them enter this type design contest for the most
    benefit to themselves, and everyone else you represent. That is the \"value\"
    to which you refer, I hope. \r\n"
  created: '2013-04-23 21:28:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not special.\r\n\r\nI don't want to stir up anything except improvement
    in type, and I think the TDC and its competition play a big role in that. For
    a smart guy you sure can't figure me out.\r\n\r\nEven stupid people know that
    the most effective way to put pressure (even positive pressure) on organizations/people
    is to do it in public. And my opinions are just ideas out there, no matter who
    I am, and whether I'm a TDC member or not. Do you really believe that paying for
    membership makes people take you much more seriously? Do you take me seriously
    on the ATypI list? TDC membership isn't exactly the Scientology $100K requirement
    for going Level 2.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-23 21:54:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I'm not special.\"\r\n\r\nAny other xp-based, bitmap lovin', monarchists
    (before they read this post), please stand up. \r\n\r\n\"I don't want to stir
    up anything except improvement in type, ...\"\r\n\r\nWell, you've been dealing
    your death chop insults in public to the TDC since the mid-90's? that's almost
    15 years now... FWIW, BTW IMHO, that ain't workin'.\r\n\r\n\"...and I think the
    TDC and its competition play a big role in that.\"\r\n\r\nIt's a great contest,
    but \"a big role\" is a baguette. And if you cut that baguette into the same number
    of pieces there are excellent typeface made per year, there are not enough crumbs
    to go around, by a long shot. So, I disagree. \r\n\r\n\"Even stupid people know
    that the most effective way to put pressure (even positive pressure) on organizations/people
    is to do it in public.\"\r\n\r\nThere is a difference between public pressure,
    and public insults. Like, if you call me stupid in private, that's fine, I'd even
    welcome it. But when you say it in public, I tend take it more seriously. And
    if you really want to Effectively Pressure People in Public, you not only have
    to know what you're talking about, but you'd better be right. \r\n\r\n\"Do you
    really believe that paying for membership makes people take you much more seriously?\"\r\n\r\nMe?
    It doesn't matter. Read my post again, it was for you. \r\n"
  created: '2013-04-24 13:43:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm bemused by the notion that comments in a Typophile thread constitute applying
    pressure on an organisation. It may sometimes be true. It may sometimes be like
    calling the patients in the asylum common room a lobbyist thinktank.
  created: '2013-04-24 19:46:32'
- author:
    name: printguru
    picture: 126565
  body: So bummed I missed this! Is it an annual competition?
  created: '2013-04-28 01:13:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Yes.
  created: '2013-04-28 01:50:27'
date: '2012-11-27 19:48:17'
title: "Enter the world\u2019s premier Typography and Typeface design competition"

---
