---
author:
  name: nycionx
body: "Hey there! I'm thinking about making my own font editing program for the PC.
  I'd like to know how hard it is? I mean what programming language is required to
  learn and to what level to design a simple font editor (is it C++?)? \r\nLike if
  I started learning today, could I have a finished product within 6-12 months? Anyone
  here have a clue?\r\nThanks :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "It's like any other programming job. I don't know anything about finances,
    so I cannot write a book-keeping program. I <em>do</em> know a lot about the internals
    of font files, so it only took me about 6 months to go from idea to a fully working
    program, to convert existing curves into one of the common font file formats.\r\n\r\nThe
    hard part is not actually your currently  (possibly non-)existing programming
    experience. You are talking about a lot of different things here:\r\n1. \"font
    <em>editing</em>\": this requires you to learn how to read a font file format
    (and there are dozens, and at least two file formats are more or less mandatory
    for any \"editor\"). You should not only be be able to <em>read</em> the file
    format but <em>write</em> it as well, which are two different things. If you read
    a file and write it back without changing anything, optimally \"nothing\" should
    be different -- a tall order in itself.\r\n2. \"editor\" implies a graphical interface.
    If you never wrote one before, don't start with a font editor ... Font editing
    is something special among graphic (vector) image software, it has a couple of
    demands of its own.\r\n3. \"Is it C++?\" What \"is\"? The language you need? The
    language commonly used for font editors? On what platform? For Mac OSX, it's (probably!)
    Objective-C. Cross-platform solutions can use Java. Using a scripting language,
    you can leverage the functionality of existing software to include font editing;
    I used Javascript to add it to Adobe InDesign.\r\n\r\nSo, your question only raises
    more questions, and only you can answer them for yourself."
  created: '2012-11-28 09:23:41'
- author:
    name: nycionx
  body: "Thanks Jong! Pretty detailed answer there. :)\r\n\r\nJust wondering, where
    do you suggest I start this journey? I think I might actually make it for Mac
    OS X, so I guess I first need to learn Objective C and then.. what's next? How
    do I learn to make a GUI and vector editing program?\r\nI think I might stick
    to one format for now to simplify things. OTF is universal so just that is ok
    right?\r\nWhat books are available on learning how to read and write font file
    formats?\r\n\r\nThanks again!"
  created: '2012-11-28 11:02:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: While I sympathize with the urge to start from scratch, you should research
    what existing font editing software is like. [[https://github.com/fontforge/fontforge|FontForge]]
    is open source, so you can get right into it at the deep end (arguably a bad example,
    but it's what I use, and you still might learn a thing or two about what you'd
    want to do different).
  created: '2012-11-28 11:15:16'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Why do you want to make your own? Is there something significantly lacking
    for you in the range of existing tools or do you just want the challenge? If you
    are interested in doing something very different then platform independence would
    be a good start.
  created: '2012-11-28 12:28:59'
- author:
    name: nycionx
  body: "yes it is kind of a challenge. I want more control over my tools too :) so
    I can change them however way I like\r\nI would also like to bring it to the iOS
    or Android eventually since mobile app development is at a high now\r\n\r\nI just
    need to know what books and/or tutorials (video) I should start with to understand
    font app development. if not specific books, specific topics and I'll google for
    resources myself.\r\n\r\nThanks for your feedback buys!"
  created: '2012-11-28 13:01:31'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: As Jason has already pointed out, FontForge is probably a great place to start
    as you can look at how it has been put together. If you want to develop for the
    Mac then [[https://developer.apple.com/technologies/mac/|Apple's resources]] are
    probably the best place to begin...
  created: '2012-11-28 13:12:56'
- author:
    name: nycionx
  body: "books please books. or topics\r\nthank you\r\nill check out the fontforge
    too but if i take a look it I'll likely flip out even just skimming through it\r\ni
    need beginner stuff first then intermediate then advanced\r\nplease no vague answers.
    Jong's post has been so far the most detailed and helpful. thank you Jong\r\n\r\nplease
    dont reply if you don't have what Im looking for: books/topics. thats all"
  created: '2012-11-28 13:51:55'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "If you want to learn about the most up to date techniques for creating your
    own software then you will need to look beyond books and may find (as with most
    technical issues relating to fonts) that forums such as this can be the richest
    source of useful information, particularly when it comes to fine details.\r\n\r\nIf
    you would like more than vague answers then you would do well to post more than
    vague questions."
  created: '2012-11-28 14:04:40'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: there are a lot of smaller tools for fonts that execute narrow processes,
    much in the way Photoshop plug-ins do, except for there being no universal plugin
    API among existing font editors. There is however, the UFO font design interchange
    format that lets you shuttle your drawing data around without committing to a
    compiled font. Meh, I've been up way too late, so I'm not 100% sure about what
    I'm talking.
  created: '2012-11-28 14:06:59'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: You need Xcode if you want to develop for Mac OS X and iOS. Manuals and tutorials
    for building apps can be found at [[https://developer.apple.com/]]
  created: '2012-11-28 14:11:09'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "First of all, what's your programming experience/knowledge level like?  \r\n\r\nSecond,
    what kind of fonts are you looking at editing?  A bitmap font drawing tool probably
    isn't too hard in a technical sense for a relatively inexperienced programmer,
    at least given a high-level language like Java (or a good RAD environment), but
    you'll still need to know basic programming techniques.  If you want to actually
    save and load font files (even bitmap), managing the file layout would add a whole
    other dimension.  Doable in 6-12 months?  Certainly, as long as you're either
    familiar with programming or a <em>very</em> diligent learner (and don't need
    much of a social life).  A 'finished' product?  There's no such thing, in my experience.
    \ Speaking as a programmer myself, 'good enough for another release' is about
    as much as you can hope for...\r\n\r\nFor an outline font editor (including TrueType,
    PostScript, OpenType, etc.) you would need an entire other set of skills like
    vector drawing techniques.  Knowledge of reasonably-advanced (at least Bachelor's
    level) mathematics would be useful, although you might possibly get away with
    less if you can find a very good spline-handling library.  I won't even try to
    put a time estimate on that.  I suspect even George Williams would be well challenged,
    starting 100% from scratch, to produce something decently usable within a year.\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-29 04:34:52'
- author:
    name: fvilanakis
    picture: 123289
  body: "I think Theunis and Alex (altsan) have put your question in the right track,
    regarding technical & GUI complexity. My opinion is that even for an experienced
    programmer, 1 man-year is not enough to produce a decently usable vector font
    editor.\r\n\r\nMore than this, if you want to elevate this editor to an actual
    product to sell, your most optimistic estimate must  be in the 3+ man-years range,
    taking into account features as read/write of all-font-formats (OTF/TTF/Type-1)
    support, Advanced vector editing GUI/techniques, Font (auto)Hinting, (auto) Kerning,
    Import/Export to common formats, Help & Documentation, Extensive Testing & Bug
    Fixing in all platforms, A web site to promote sell your product, A decent DRM
    system, etc.\r\n\r\nMy thoughts, -given you possible inexperience in programming-
    are:\r\n\r\n=> I don't think iOS is an appropriate environment for a full vector-font
    editor. iPhone is too small and even iPad would present a user with a difficult
    interface, too far from the easiness & precision a PC/Mac can offer.\r\n\r\n=>
    Learning/mastering a new language as Objective C or C++ at the same time you are
    working in a complex project like a Vector-Font-Editor is a guaranty of both frustration
    (why this crashes/not working?) and a bad final product quality. Start with a
    much simpler project, like e.g. a simple vector editor to read/write/edit an EPS
    (Encapsulated Postscript) file, and gradually add Guidelines, Grid, Snap Tools,
    etc. until you feel confident to handle more complex file formats and data structures.\r\n\r\n=>
    Objective C  is an interesting, powerful language but it works only on Mac OS/iOS
    environments. If you decided to go the route of learning a new language I propose
    a <strong>[[http://www.developer.nokia.com/Develop/Qt/|C++/Nokia Qt]]*</strong>
    combination which is actually a multi-platform solution: You write the Application
    once and (with one or two twinks) it compiles/runs under Windows/Mac/Linux, but
    be aware that Qt Creator GUI editor is not as good as MS-Visual Studio (for Windows)
    or X-Code (for Mac OS). \r\n(*) Nokia Qt is an Open Source product delivered with
    an LGPL license, which practically means you can even use it on a commercial application
    without buying it, as long as you include Qt in DLLs format. \r\n\r\n=> This is
    a useful/fast/free/open-source/high quality library to read & render most formats
    of vector & bitmap fonts files: <strong>[[http://www.freetype.org/freetype2/index.html|Freetype2]]</strong>\r\nYou
    can read/render and I think you also have access to font's vector data, but it
    does not support editing or creating/saving a new font file. \r\n\r\nGood luck
    with your project ;)"
  created: '2012-11-29 08:41:27'
- author:
    name: Typogruffer
    picture: 125697
  body: "@nycion Even I tried to do something like this once. I wanted to make a kerning
    software but gave up on the idea as it is difficult and I don't have the required
    programming experience or the time. I did ask at stackexchange.com only to get
    my hopes dashed. You can use, as Jason mentioned  fontforge, or there is something
    called <a href=\"http://freetype.org/\"> FreeType </a.It has all the logic required
    to read/write(i am not very sure) coded into it. Even fontforge uses it. All the
    best!\r\n\r\nTypo\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-29 11:22:58'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Evidently, it is very difficult to make a fully functional and reliable font
    generation: FontLab has been struggling to get its latest release out, abd continues
    to have problems playing nice with OS X. Additionally, DTL seems to be having
    problems putting together a WYSIWYG version of their Kernmaster software: the
    promised 2012 version has yet to materialize.\r\n\r\nOnce upon a time, Fontographer
    3.x did yeomanlike work in a simpler world; unfortunately, since Ye Olden Tymes,
    \"improvements\" in font technology appear to have presented challenges which
    are not easily overcome, it seems. So, the type standards war runs parallel to
    the browser standards war: everyone has their own indea of what OUGHT to work,
    and font creators and font users have to deal with the messy results of \"competition
    in ther marketplace.\" Puh-leeze..."
  created: '2012-12-01 16:30:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"please no vague answers\"\r\n\r\nBut it's a rather vague question. You're
    asking how hard it is to learn software programming. It depends. Some people pick
    it up as a hobby. Some spend 4-8 years to get a degree in it.\r\n\r\n90% of the
    challenge is going to be learning programming. "
  created: '2012-12-01 22:42:15'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Ten thousand hours. That seems to be the amount of time one has to invest
    in a craft to become proficient in it. And common sense and personal experience
    seems to confirm this\u2026 So, if you can invest ten hours of your time, each
    day, you will be a master of programming in three years. And maybe you will have
    created the best software to create fonts in that period, OR be able to that after
    that\u2026\r\n\r\nAnyway, feel free to announce it here when you are ready."
  created: '2012-12-02 00:48:51'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "<cite>Evidently, it is very difficult to make a fully functional and reliable
    font generation</cite>\r\nThat is nonsense. The Adobe OpenType FDK is out there
    for everyone to use, or to implement in software. All the major font editors have
    this FDK built-in to generate OpenType font files. And I cannot remember that
    Adobe put out a similar kind of FDK for PostScript Type 1 fonts some 25 years
    ago. Because that was a time when the real \u201Cfont wars\u201D were happening
    \u2013 between PostScript and TrueType \u2013 and not now.\r\n\r\nThere is only
    one reason why font designers/developers have to work with tools that are less
    than ideal sometimes: because they are a small audience. Therefore development
    of font editors/tools is done by small companies \u2013 usually only one programmer
    \u2013 that cannot invest vast resources to make every user happy. That is how
    the font industry works. Deal with it."
  created: '2012-12-02 12:04:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Evidently, it is very difficult to make a fully functional and reliable font
    generation\r\n\r\n<em>That is nonsense. The Adobe OpenType FDK is out there for
    everyone to use...</em>\r\n\r\nNo: that is nonsense. The AOFDK is an afterburner,
    not a complete font design environment. IMHO, none of the font creation packages
    currently available have sensible drawing tools, nor are they complete. Fontographer
    still suffers from Macromedia's inane decision to include fractional em sizes,
    and FontLab's generated TrueType fonts often fail in one or more areas when run
    through MS Font Validator. Plus, it appears that FontLab consistently has problems
    porting to Mac OS X.\r\n\r\nSo, if you can build a better mousetrap, please do...ASAP."
  created: '2012-12-02 14:13:23'
- author:
    name: allanm1
    picture: 110782
  body: "A great way learn programming is to have a practical and complex project
    to work on. Start off small and then add to it bit by bit, so that you have something
    that is useful and working very early on. Look at what is already out there (so
    you know what not to do).\r\n\r\nIt is possible to have a usable (and salable)
    product within 6-12 months (I know this to be true from personal experience).
    But it won't be finished in even 6 to 12 years!\r\n\r\nResources: \"Fonts & Encodings\"
    Published by O'Reilly. \r\nAlso the font file specs on the Adobe, Microsoft and
    Apple websites.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-03 10:40:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>begin with implementing some simple vector editing tools...</em>\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    that's an excellent suggestion. Personally, I would recommend studying the vector
    editing tools (including the curve smoothing slider) in CorelDraw 9 or 10, if
    you can find them. The SINGLE node editing tool is vastly superior to AI's approach,
    and the single-level contextual menu is also preferable to FontLab's layered approach."
  created: '2012-12-03 14:37:56'
- author:
    name: johan.mattsson.m
    picture: 125755
  body: I recently finished writing a [[http://birdfont.org|font program]] and learning
    a new  [[http://live.gnome.org/Vala|programming language]] . It took a little
    bit more than six months. I suggest that you start by reading the wikipedia article
    on [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%e9zier_curve|Bezier curves]] and begin with
    implementing some simple vector editing tools without looking too much in to the
    very complex TTF and OTF specifications.
  created: '2012-12-03 14:39:23'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "<cite>No: that is nonsense. The AOFDK is an afterburner, not a complete font
    design environment.</cite>\r\nYou talked about font generation software \u2013
    that is something different than a full-fledged visual editor for beziers, metrics,
    kerning, OpenType features, etc.\r\n\r\n<cite>IMHO, none of the font creation
    packages currently available have sensible drawing tools, nor are they complete.</cite>\r\nDefine
    \u2018sensible\u2019, define \u2018complete\u2019. All highly subjective matter.\r\n\r\n<cite>Fontographer
    still suffers from Macromedia's inane decision to include fractional em sizes,
    and FontLab's generated TrueType fonts often fail in one or more areas when run
    through MS Font Validator. Plus, it appears that FontLab consistently has problems
    porting to Mac OS X.</cite>\r\nAnd Fontographer 3.x wasn\u2019t without limitations?
    No access to all font info. No support for hinting. Ever tried generating TrueTypes
    with it? Or Windows Type-1 fonts?\r\n\r\nTwenty years ago the majority of type
    designers only had to produce PostScript Type-1 fonts for Mac, that would predominantly
    be used by designers in dedicated design apps such as Quark XPress, Illustrator
    or Photoshop. I agree that was easy and convenient.\r\nThese days are over, and
    we have to support customers who use many more applications on increasingly more
    operating systems. So we have to deal with the same kind of headaches that most
    software developers have to do: compatibility. But in return we also have a much
    larger market out there."
  created: '2012-12-03 18:11:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Regarding simple vectore editing tool vs AFDKO vs full-fledged visual editor
    etc, it makes sense to separate the different elements, especially drawing tool
    and font-generation tool. Each is a challenge in itself, at least if one wants
    to get it right. It is not by accident, I assume, that full-fledged editors rely
    on existing libraries e.g. for font generation, like a built-in AFDKO. Once you
    have this separation, you are free to combine any drawing tool with any font-generation
    tool.
  created: '2012-12-03 23:19:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Congratulations on Birdfont Johan! People have been asking for more modern
    windows font tools, I hope this is one. '
  created: '2012-12-06 09:09:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Paul--\r\n\r\nI presume that English is not your first language, which may
    explain your reading comprehension problems. The subject of this thread is Font
    Editing software; hence, that was the subject I was discussing, so my comments
    about the AFDKO stand, and your comments remain nonsense.\r\n\r\nAs I understand
    it, Apple and Microsoft worked jointly on the Truetype format to overcome some
    of the limitations of Apple's original implementation of PS1 fonts, especially
    the annoying problems of separate screen and printer fonts. Also, in my experience,
    Fontographer 3.x did a quite credible job of generating TTF fonts: many of my
    initial, humble freeware efforts from fifteen years ago are still being used by
    cheapskates; in fact, I was somewhat surprised to find several of them preinstalled
    on the HP computer I bought about six years ago.\r\n\r\nNo, FOG 3x wasn't a perfect
    design and production tool, but font life was a little simpler then. Sometimes,
    less <em>is</em> more..."
  created: '2012-12-09 11:44:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Eh? What? I presume that font tools and formats are not your native languages
    ;) Apple made TT alone and licensed it to MS. Aside for a couple switches and
    the tables added in the Opentype conquest, not much TT has been changed by MS.
    Adobe made \"PS1\" alone and was solely responsible for the pre-OS7 Mac implementations
    of type one font tech.\r\n\r\nFog 3.x made bloated TT, still does, so does FL.
    Those old tools were simple, and if all you make today are what you made then,
    you are fine. If not, then you need to get out more often.\r\n\r\nSince the development
    of UFO, tool development based on monumental application development and a proprietary
    font format, vs really good modules, is a bit silly, but still they try.:)"
  created: '2012-12-09 15:57:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nYou presume too much :\xDE Apple has always been about making
    technology as idiotproof as possible; unfortunately, American culture seems to
    be quite adept at creating bigger and better idiots. MS improved a marginal product:
    by calling the process collaboration, I was being uncharacteristically kind to
    Apple. And I am well aware of Abode's role with the PS1 format: in the 1980s,
    I operated dedicated typesetting equipment--the kind <em>real</em> typographic
    professionals used before the advent of desktop publishing/design by divas. In
    fact, I created my first digital fonts in 1983 for the Chyron IV character generator
    at KXAS-TV, the NBC affiliate in Fort Worth-Dallas.\r\n\r\nJust sayin\u2019\u2026"
  created: '2012-12-10 19:10:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "By 1983 I was kerning fonts on the side of the Stardust from a jet pack.
    Just saying'.\r\n\r\n\"...MS improved a marginal product: by calling the process
    collaboration, I was being uncharacteristically kind to Apple\"\r\n\r\nI hope
    you have a single example of this. The history of TT is written in the Wikipedia
    correctly, more or less, and Apple's solo invention of the required TT tables
    is not in question anywhere, outside of your apparent insistence otherwise."
  created: '2012-12-10 22:02:15'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nYou do know, of course, that sarcasm is the lowest form of
    wit, don\u2019t you? Evidently not\u2026"
  created: '2012-12-11 22:20:14'
date: '2012-11-28 08:34:14'
node_type: font_id
title: How hard is it make font editing software?

---
