---
author:
  name: Sebastian Nagel
  picture: 109594
body: "Dear readers,\r\n\r\ni'm wondering how the \"ALL CAPS\" formatting in Indesign
  (not the \"Change Case > Uppercase\" function) should behave.\r\n\r\nWhat i can
  see from testing in CS5, it applies the CASE feature (with positional changes) if
  found in the font, and it exchanges lowercase to upper case letters in a hard-coded
  way (independent from the font). Is this all it can do, or is there possibility
  for more if done in a smart way?\r\n\r\nIn specifics, i'm wondering if a font with
  default oldstyle figures should/could change them to lining figures when the formatting
  is applied, and if it's possible to let this happen with otf logic. \r\nTo compare:
  for the small caps button, the SMCP feature is applied, and if the otf font is set
  to exchange the figures in this feature along with the letters, they are changed
  too. So is it possible to do something similar with the All Caps button, or is this
  just and only old-school hard coded indesign?\r\n\r\nthanks for your ideas\r\nSebastian"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "It depends on what's in the case feature. I agree with you, figures should
    be \"lining.\" When going into a font (with permission, of course) I usually add
    this to the case feature.\r\n\r\nThis also means adding a bit of spacing to the
    numbers in the cpsp feature, but for me, not as much as I add to the letters.\r\n\r\nSince
    the InDesign \"all caps\" routine calls two OT features, one really needs to  do
    work in both places.\r\n\r\nOther things to consider are the parens, brackets,
    quote marks, etc. Dowding had a list o candidates in <cite>Finer points</cite>.
    I also set the Spanish inverted question mark & exclam to work with caps in the
    font, then make up a lowercase version to use when they don't start a sentence.
    This too can be automated.\r\n\r\nI think the reason I wind up doing a bunch of
    this work is it only makes sense for a compositor, a user of type, not the designer/publisher.
    There are too many different workflows possible, too many text editors, layout
    programs, and varying style requirements. So yes, it can all be done, but I'm
    not really sure the font publisher should."
  created: '2012-12-12 03:47:54'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks for your reply.\r\n\r\nAt the moment, i have some pos commands in
    the CASE feature, that shift spanish punctuation, mathematical operators, brackets
    etc. up so they line up with the upper case letters.  they are no special versions
    of the glyphs, but the normal ones repositioned upwards accordingly.\r\n\r\nBack
    in the 200x, i read somewhere (prove me wrong and i'm happy) that one can't combine
    pos and sub commands in the same feature, so this would mean if  i want to switch
    the figures too with the CASE feature, i'd have to make duplicates and manually
    reposition the glyphs like {}() ... and then substitute them along with the figures?
    \r\n\r\nIf you say \"all caps routine calls two OT features\", what would be the
    second feature besides CASE?\r\n\r\nThanks a lot\r\nSebastian\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-12 08:23:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "For marks, I make alternate glyphs for the case feature.\r\nAs I design lining
    \uFB01gures to work in a mixed case setting, they are generally too much like
    lower case glyphs to work in an all-cap setting, so I do a separate set of \u201C.case\u201D
    \uFB01gure glyphs.\r\nSometimes it\u2019s necessary to do two complete sets, one
    proportional and one tabular, but often I try and make do with the default set
    as tabular, and only /0, /1, and /7 proportional and kerned.\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-12 15:11:01'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: ":) as i have 10 figure sets already, and the mixed case lining figures work
    with the capitals, i am reluctant to add another set for case \u2013 but the general
    idea is a good one for some cases.\r\n\r\nso i'll have to see what to do ... maybe
    create duplicates of the puctuation and brackets so i can use SUB in the CASE
    feature."
  created: '2012-12-12 20:43:30'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: The reason to add glyphs & use SUB for parens, brackets, etc. is so they can
    have different kern values with the caps when their position is different.
  created: '2012-12-12 21:30:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Is raising marks like hyphen and colon a desired behavior?\r\nOne is so used
    to seeing them at the normal distance above the baseline that centering them vertically
    on the cap height (for all-cap settings) doesn\u2019t look right."
  created: '2012-12-13 00:48:19'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I sort of agree with Nick on this one. Personally, I find parentheses and
    the apostrophe (& therefore double quotes), a different matter. It does depend
    somewhat on how the font is drawn -- another case of \"if it looks right, it is
    right.\"\r\n\r\nYou also run into editors who have requirements about style. As
    their money is green, we usually accommodate them, however bizarre their taste...\r\n\r\nAll
    part of why I think this is probably a composition matter, not a type design matter."
  created: '2012-12-13 01:00:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Raising the colon? Who does that?\r\n\r\nWith regard to raising the hyphen
    or dashes, I think it depends on the context of the all-caps setting. If, for
    whatever reason, one has all-caps within a body of text, then raising the hyphen/dashes
    seems unnecessary and may look weird. But in titling or other display situations
    where the all-caps stand by themselves, raising the hyphen/dash seems to me not
    only desirable but pretty much essential, since it will otherwise look too low
    in most types. I generally raise it to align with the crossbar of the H."
  created: '2012-12-13 05:30:01'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Sebastian, the other feature that is activated by the Caps button in InDesign
    is Capital Spacing (cpsp).
  created: '2012-12-13 09:22:29'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: ":) i was raising the colon, saw that it looked wrong, and moved it back.\r\n\r\nJens:
    \r\nThank you \u2013\_so is my thought right that i could use CPSP for the repositioning
    (like additional/different spacing of capitals and vertical shift of brackets),
    and use CASE for substitutions (like exchanging figures)?"
  created: '2012-12-13 15:11:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Mr Nagel -- and others:\r\n\r\nI think you have the wrong notion about what
    OT features accomplish. What I see here is the notion that type will look as you,
    the type designer, want it to look.\r\n\r\nWell, the glyphs, yes, sort of. Nothing
    else. What features do is to save handwork for the person who actually uses type.
    We say \"thank you\" for everything that can be automated through features, right
    up to the point where you add a routine that does something we really don't want.\r\n\r\nAt
    that point, we have to stop using the feature at all, meaning all those \"thank
    yous\" disappear. Instead, we curse you for making handwork out of what use to
    be automatic.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-14 13:53:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Is that the royal we, Charles? :-)\r\nYour taste in what is appropriate in
    a feature is not shared by all typographers.\r\nNecessarily so, given the diversity
    of jobs that require typography.\r\nThe trick for foundries is to match feature
    implementation to the typeface and the kind of work it will most likely be used
    for."
  created: '2012-12-14 16:46:04'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "No Nick, that's the commoner -- the tradesman who actually does the work.\r\n\r\nMy
    point was to put something in a feature that a large enough segment finds wrong
    negates all the good in the feature.\r\n\r\nIf there's any royal ego going on,
    it would seem to be the type designers, who what, want their work hung on the
    museum wall?"
  created: '2012-12-14 17:41:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "FYI, Adobe routinely adjusts the height of dashes with the 'case' feature.\r\n\r\nI
    am definitely in favor of these adjustments.\r\n\r\nThe colon is a tricky case,
    mostly because of the semicolon. I think the latter really seems like it has to
    stay on the baseline. I might instead make the top dot of the colon and semicolon
    higher in the 'case' variants.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2012-12-15 02:13:41'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "charles_e, i'm with you \u2013 as a type designer i can't control everything
    what i would do as type user (what I am to a large extend).\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat i
    can't deliver as a type designer today is a set of lead with no further settings
    \u2013 there is always a \"default\" behavior \u2013 my spacing, my kerning, my
    decision for default figures, etc.  also, the software we are using, has default
    behaviours, for example, Indesign by default exchanges \"abc\" to \"ABC\" when
    i hit the all caps button.\r\n\r\nWhat i was initally asking was if i technically
    could, and from usability view should exchange the old style figures if i activate
    all caps in indesign. \r\nThe type user wants capital setting, but indesign only
    delivers this for letters in a hard-coded way (which is good for some fonts) \u2013
    except i tell indesign that my font is capable of something more, that is likely
    more desirable from the users point of view. (or do you prefer to manually set
    the figures to lining right *after* you have already hit the all caps button?)\r\nIts
    the same with capital spacing ... i have one default behaviour for capitals \u2013
    to work with minuscles well. If the user hits the all caps setting, what he wanted
    is to have a line of capital letters and he'll get that the one or the other way.
    As a type designer i can give him an arbitrary one, resulting from the spacing
    with minuskels, or a better one with adjusted spacing. He can still decide to
    override this manually, but what i try to do is make it  \u2013 by probability
    \u2013 a little bit easier, doing less overrides."
  created: '2012-12-15 12:59:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I think your goals when wearing the type designer hat are about right. Don't
    want to quibble over specifics.\r\n\r\n<cite>Indesign by default exchanges \"abc\"
    to \"ABC\" when i hit the all caps button.</cite>\r\n\r\nBTW, have you tested
    this? Set a,b,c, use the InDesign All Caps feature to get A,B,C, written off an
    .idml file, and taken a look inside that idml with a text editor?\r\n\r\nFrom
    how you described things, it sounds like you've done this -- I'm just lazy & just
    checking :-)"
  created: '2012-12-15 13:53:17'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "<blockquote>What i was initally asking was if i technically could, and from
    usability view should exchange the old style figures if i activate all caps in
    indesign.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTechnically, it's possible to add whatever rules
    you want; functionally, changing the figures from oldstyle to lining is one of
    the [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_ae.htm#case|recommended
    effects of the <code>case</code> feature]] (though, of the few fonts that I tested,
    only Garamond Premiere Pro seemed to support it).\r\n\r\nRe: case changing\u2014
    InDesign's All Caps function doesn't change the case of the underlying text (in
    IDML, it simply adds the parameter <code>Capitalization=\"AllCaps\"</code> to
    the enclosing element). I think Sebastian's point was that the effective change
    in case is handled by the application, rather than the OpenType features that
    also get triggered by activating All Caps."
  created: '2012-12-16 02:48:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Well, the glyphs, yes, sort of. Nothing else.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOf
    course this makes no sense. A font is not merely a collection of letterforms.\r\n\r\nRaising
    the dash(es) for all-caps is frankly a no-brainer (and something that used to
    be done even back in the metal days, by flipping the sort). And the colon should
    not be out of contention.\r\n\r\nI can even see shifting things based on the <em>language</em>
    being set.\r\n\r\nSimplicity? Strictly for simpletons.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-18 21:39:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> \u2026 of the few fonts that I tested, only Garamond Premiere Pro seemed
    to support it \u2026 </em>\r\n\r\nThen you haven\u2019t tested any of mine :-) "
  created: '2012-12-19 04:35:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "All the time, one sees all cap settings with oldstyle \uFB01gures.\r\nIf
    it were a pointedly quaint oldschool vibe, referencing when almost all fonts with
    oldstyle \uFB01gures didn\u2019t have the option of lining \uFB01gures for all
    cap settings, that would be understandable. But I doubt that\u2019s the ever case.\r\nI
    suspect the designers just choose a typestyle and go with the default \uFB01gures
    and aren't even aware of the issue.\r\nHere is something I received via email
    today, from a type company that should know better:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WebInk_3514.png]\r\nWhat
    makes this an exceptional faux pas is the fact that the \uFB01gure styles in the
    headline and display are bass-ackwards."
  created: '2012-12-19 04:39:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Ouch! Of course, that was in an email newsletter, where we have to rely on
    system fonts still (unless one goes to all images, which is silly). I think we
    got bit by the default figures in Georgia there. Unfortunately, email does not
    reliably support real web fonts yet. If you look at the accompanying web article
    (http://blog.webink.com/web-font-trends-and-predictions-for-2013/) it has no such
    issues. At the moment we are using lining figures throughout, but we may yet go
    to OSF in body text.
  created: '2012-12-29 19:59:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry for picking on that email from Extensis, Thomas, I just happened to
    get it the same day as this thread. No font distributor is immune to slip-ups,
    not to mention foundries.\r\n\r\nHowever, the issue here does not have a technical
    solution.\r\n\r\nIn the \uFB01rst place, it\u2019s careless copywriting to begin
    a sentence with a number (unless spelled out)\u2014it creates too many typographic
    problems. It could have been written  \u201CTHE YEAR IN REVIEW\u201D, after all,
    what year other than 2012 is likely to have been the topic?\r\n\r\nSecondly, if
    the font chosen has OSF as default\u2014even if it were a \u201Creal\u201D web
    font with a supported \u201Ccase\u201D (All Caps) feature\u2014there is nothing
    other than typographer savvy to guarantee lining, cap-height \uFB01gures. This
    is because (a) all-cap text may be typed with the shift key rather than the caps
    lock key, and (b) the \u201Call caps\u201D feature might only have been applied
    to the letters, not the numbers\u2014they not being caps!\r\n\r\nThirdly, many
    fonts with lining \uFB01gures as default have only three-quarter height and weight,
    and are not a true match for capitals.\r\n\r\nOf course, there is always this
    fail-safe option:\r\nMMXII: THE YEAR IN REVIEW\r\n\r\nPerhaps the only technical
    salve to this issue would be a prompt <strong>in the layout application</strong>
    that called attention to mismatched heights in text with adjacent all-cap/\uFB01gure
    characters.\r\n\r\nTypographers/Compositors\u2014can\u2019t do without \u2019em,
    eh Charles?!"
  created: '2012-12-30 19:31:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Typographers/Compositors\u2014can\u2019t do without \u2019em, eh Charles?!</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    even though Nick's tongue is likely a bit bloody and sore -- especially if he
    had a laughing fit -- that's my position. It should probably be noted there are
    a few people like Kent Lew who are type designers, book designers, and *real*
    compositors, all rolled into one person. I only design and set books, I have absolutely
    no interest designing type. Now fixing type's another matter. Fixing type's kind
    of like Sudoku. Nothing is as challenging as laying out a book though, with compromises
    on every page.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nNick brings up a good point. Full-height lining
    figures should be available. More than one use/need for them.\r\n\r\nSometimes,
    as with Matthew Carter's Miller, they already exist, but for some reason were
    not included in the basic font. (Same is true for os figs in Miller, too.) Well,
    that's probably because Carter & Cone only sold Type 1 fonts, but you could get
    them as a supplemental font(s) for $50 or so if you knew to ask.  Don't know if
    FB has the same policy, esp. as they've made up OT versions of Miller... \r\n\r\nFor
    those designing fonts for multiple uses, make 'em available. Charge more if you
    want. I'd gladly pay, it takes me over a hundred dollars in my time to make up
    both sets of os figs, especially the 2, 3, and 7. More if you really do justice
    to the tabular os figs.\r\n\r\nFinally with respect to figures, I'm coming around
    to the point of view that small cap figures should be available too, if you include
    small caps in a font. Keep running into acronyms with numbers in them. Nothing
    else looks right in that case. I've yet to find a need for tabular small cap figs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 02:38:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Nothing is as challenging as laying out a book though</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWe
    each have our affinities, and what one person finds easy another might find effectively
    impossible. However if you were ever to make a font, especially a text font, especially
    one that other people would pay good money for, you'd probably change your mind.
    I think making a <em>tool</em> as opposed to a finished product (especially a
    static one like a book) is on a higher level of difficulty, at least for most
    people.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>small cap figures should be available too, if you include
    small caps in a font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDefinitely.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 02:48:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I've yet to find a need for tabular small cap figs.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is the thread that convinced me of their necessity:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/70865"
  created: '2012-12-31 03:21:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>However if you were ever to make a font, especially a text font, especially
    one that other people would pay good money for, you'd probably change your mind.</cite>\r\n\r\nMirror
    thinking, hhp. I have fixed fonts that people offer to pay good money for, but
    that's not permitted, usually. I have given the fixes to the designers -- some
    of the names might surprise you -- and seen them incorporated in new releases.\r\n\r\nAs
    for making a tool, the biggest challenge in type design today -- my point of view
    -- would be making up a font family that isn't a rip-off of exiting fonts. Just
    look at the comments on these forums.\r\n\r\nMost of your <cite>tools</cite> haven't
    been tested before being rushed into the marketplace. The practice goes all the
    way back to early photocomp & continues today in the digital era. How can anyone
    design a (purported) text font without seeing how it prints on several kinds of
    papers?  Yet that's the exception, rather then the norm. More testing seems to
    be done with web fonts, which seems passing strange, since most web systems don't
    yet support typography.\r\n\r\nWe have more than enough \"raw material\" tools.
    Just very few finished ones that actually work well.\r\n\r\nFinally, I look at
    money as a battery or a capacitor. It's a way of storing energy. If you have enough,
    getting more \"money\" becomes  a religious matter, and that's not my religion."
  created: '2012-12-31 03:29:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, one of the things that makes laying out a book challenging is that
    one is generally forced to work with tools that one did not make oneself, and
    which may be limited in various regards. A complex text is indeed a challenging
    thing to work with, without the relative freedom of creating one's own typeface
    to fit. I spent much of the past four years working on the Brill fonts, but I
    never forgot that my challenges derived from the challenges that Brill's typesetters
    had struggled with for 325 years of scholarly publishing.\r\n\r\nWhether this
    means that 'nothing is as challenging as laying out a book', I'm not so sure.
    My wife is a firefighter."
  created: '2012-12-31 03:39:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have \"fixed\" Garamond Premier, for good money, but I don't pretend I
    could have made it from scratch (although I can make certain things that Slimbach
    would probably have trouble making). And I believe that project required more
    experience and expertise than trying to fix something (not everything) in a given
    book design.\r\n\r\nI think much more things can go wrong when you tweak a tool
    than when you tweak a product.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the biggest challenge in type
    design today -- my point of view -- would be making up a font family that isn't
    a rip-off of exiting fonts.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI might agree, but it depends
    on your definition of \"rip-off\". Deriving inspiration, even from \"living\"
    fonts I find unavoidable, and desirable. Carter and Lew certainly do that. And
    sometimes we do see high invention, like with Legato and Fenland.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Most
    of your tools haven't been tested before being rushed into the marketplace.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf
    that \"you\" is plural, I agree (especially when it comes to free and/or libre
    fonts). But I myself do enough testing that my clients (which are mostly custom,
    not retail) end up long-term happy. And when it comes to retail, \"rush\" is not
    part of my vocabulary; Nour&Patria was started in 2000, and I'm finally ready
    to publish it in 2013 (although partly because I only found the right partner
    this year).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>How can anyone design a (purported) text font without
    seeing how it prints on several kinds of papers?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nExperience
    helps. And -as in any field- realizing the impossibility (which I equate to undesirability)
    of Perfection certainly helps too.\r\n\r\nAs for the religion of money, it's not
    for me either; if it were I would not be in type design. But it does help make
    my family happier, and that makes me happy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 03:53:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "John, laying out a book is inherently a compromise. Spreads should align.
    Widows and orphans should be banished. So do you run a page short? Even with running
    feet? Do you make/save a line & affect the word spacing? How does that affect
    the next spread?\r\n\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\nEditors add their own limits to available
    compromises, usually with the mistaken notion it is \"better\" typography. Don't
    hyphenate the last word on a page, or the last word in a paragraph. Not hard,
    but where do they think the space comes from to achieve that? From the word spacing,
    of course.\r\n\r\nOr the designer specifies \"all chapters start verso\" with
    the understanding by the editor there will be no blank rectos...\r\n\r\nAnd editors
    have this silly notion that the comp shouldn't rewrite the text...\r\n\r\nThen
    there are editors who let an author call 3-4-5 tables or figures right before
    a new subhead. Basic thinking is tables & figures should be placed after their
    callout (or on the same spread at least), but before a new section (subhead).\r\n\r\nAll
    this before the (interior) designer mucks things up -- like you said -- by choosing
    a typeface inappropriate to the work, (& just here, I'll reserve \"inappropriate\"
    for the character compliment of the font itself). Last week, we had a book where
    there were a lot of italic superscripted numbers. That was the author's requirement.
    The font chosen by the designer? Quadraat... Good luck finding Quadraat serif
    italic lining figures for those superiors...  \r\n\r\nBut yes, firefighting's
    probably harder. Certainly more dangerous."
  created: '2012-12-31 04:02:09'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "<cite>I've yet to find a need for tabular small cap figs.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>This
    is the thread that convinced me of their necessity:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/70865</cite>\r\n\r\nGreat
    to hear that! I am happy about each and every type designer who includes (proportional
    and tabular) small-cap figures in his or her fonts. Looking forward to a new year
    full of small-cap figures\u2014happy 2013 to all of you!"
  created: '2013-01-01 01:13:11'
date: '2012-12-11 23:49:13'
title: 'Indesign ALL CAPS button: what OT-Features does it apply? What is "desired
  behavior"?'

---
