---
author:
  name: piccic
  picture: 110375
body: "Hi,\r\nI am looking at some lead typefaces of the 1910s and 1920s and I wished
  to ask if someone has pictures of the 1914 original version of Souvenir, by Morris
  Fuller Benton (I haven\u2019t found so much online).\r\nI have come to appreciate
  the new design which Ed Benguiat did for ITC, but I would like to see how the original
  looked in print.\r\nAny help is really appreciated. \r\nMany thanks in advance!
  \ :-)"
comments:
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "It's in the 1923 ATF Specimen book.  I can't insert an image here, but you
    can find it by going to Google Books and searching for \r\n\r\nATF Catalog 1923\r\n\r\nIt's
    on one of the sample pages.\r\n\r\nI also tried to attach an image of the google-books
    excerpt that found that source. It's from \"The Secret History of Letters\" by
    Simon Loxley. It states that there's a specimen in the 1923 edition of the ATF
    catalog. Still can't insert, so here's the text rewritten:\r\n\r\n\"His [Benton's]
    other durable face was fifty years ahead of its time. Designed in 1914, Souvenir
    was offerec to the trade in the early 1920s. It appears in the 1923 specimen book,
    but curiously, given ATF's belief in the type family, it came in one weight only,
    with no italic. This apparent lack of confidence in the design was reflected by
    market response, and Souvenir died an unlamented death. However, in 1967 a company
    called Photo-Lettering revived it for one of its accounts, and two years later
    the face achieved high profile when a redrawn version, known as Eastern Souvenir,
    was created for the new identity for Eastern Airlines. Souvenir is a face that
    is intractably rooted in style to a particular era, although one a half-century
    after its creation. It is a quintessential alte 1960s and 1970s typeface, informal,
    with full rounded character shapes and rounded serifs, a laid-back Cheltenham.\"\r\n\r\n[I
    sure wish that image insert was working]\r\n\r\n - Herb\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 23:21:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "From\r\n\r\n[[https://ia700409.us.archive.org/31/items/SpecimenBookAndCatalogue1923/PTIFF/]]\r\n\r\nyou
    will want\r\n\r\n22_AmeSpec00460.tif\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\n22_AmeSpec00461.tif\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 12:04:58'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Many thanks to both, I\u2019ll have a look! :-)"
  created: '2012-12-31 12:50:20'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Ed Benguiat's Souvenir was enormously popular in the 1970s. It became the
    obvious choice for anyone who wanted a casual, contemporary look. By the mid-1980s,
    Souvenir had turned into a clich\xE9, and designers joked about it the way they
    do now about Papyrus and Comic Sans.\r\n\r\nBy the time PageMaker and QuarkXPress
    came on the scene, Souvenir had fallen out of popularity, so a whole generation
    of designers (and designer wannabees) never added it to their repertoire. Maybe
    it's due for a revival.\r\n\r\nLike Papyrus and Comic Sans, Souvenir is a little
    too soft and flabby for general use. It has its niche, and that niche is things
    like a menu for a restaurant that specializes in ice-cream sundaes, or a logo
    for baby-care products. "
  created: '2012-12-31 15:39:06'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "For some reason,  Quad's  link was  corrupted into a Typophile Wiki reference.\r\n
    So did my first few attempts here - I have no idea what I did but this one seems
    to work.\r\n\r\nhttps://ia700409.us.archive.org/31/items/SpecimenBookAndCatalogue1923/PTIFF/\r\n\r\n-
    Herb"
  created: '2012-12-31 15:44:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Maybe it's due for a revival.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOK, I found
    a baseball bat - where do you live again?  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 15:44:59'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Hmm, that escalated quickly ;-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BatmanSouvenir_3670.jpg]"
  created: '2012-12-31 16:25:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Holy font snobbery, Batman!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 16:27:43'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "You could at least have used Souvenir in the balloons.\r\n\r\nIt really is
    a technically well-done face (the original) and regardless of what others think,
    I still like it.\r\n\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2012-12-31 18:29:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Souvenir is great, but I've always thought Ed could have done a better job
    on the Sans, it\u2019s a bit too spikey\u2014that much contrast with the serif
    version isn\u2019t really necessary.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 18:50:05'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: '@ Majus, I thought about it, but I don''t have Souvenir, and it wasn''t worth
    downloading it for this one use (although I have done far stupider things in pursuit
    of a cheap laugh). At least fake handlettering is a nod to the artists who did
    the real lettering in the old-school comics. '
  created: '2012-12-31 18:56:12'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Nick, do you mean Souvenir Gothic? That wasn't Benguiat. It was designed in
    1977 by George Brian for TypeSpectra (Phil Martin).
  created: '2012-12-31 19:32:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, that might explain why it was no match for Ed\u2019s face!"
  created: '2012-12-31 21:33:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Souvenir is great</em>\r\n\r\nNo, no, it isn't. Really, it isn't."
  created: '2013-01-01 00:14:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "To tell the truth, Souvenir and I don\u2019t see much of each other any more
    (notwithstanding Mr. Dean\u2019s avatar).\r\nOh, but the times we had!"
  created: '2013-01-02 06:09:55'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Souvenir_5373.jpg]'
  created: '2013-01-02 10:47:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I beg to differ from Loxley\u2019s analysis.\r\n\r\nIn 1923 the original
    Souvenir was actually behind its time, with its art nouveau forms, which would
    perhaps still have been current when it was designed, before the War.\r\nSimilar
    vibe to Hobo, a slightly earlier Benton face.\r\nSouvenir\u2019s construction
    was somewhat based on the round-nibbed Speedball pen.\r\nBoth those types were
    in styles that Benton derived from lettering artists, although his Souvenir was
    quite typographically disciplined.\r\n \r\nArt Nouveau was popular in the late
    sixties and early 1970s, hence some of Souvenir\u2019s appeal then.\r\nWith its
    small serifs, it was suited to tight setting, in vogue during the 1970s.\r\nArnold
    Bocklin was another art nouveau style popular then.\r\nSouvenir also had some
    of the soft \uFB01nish of Cooper Black, which had no weight or style range, so
    Souvenir kind of acted as a slicker, more contemporary Cooper Black family.\r\nIt
    held up well as a text type in photosetting, no hairlines or pointy serifs to
    disappear in less-than-perfect processing.\r\nGood for foil stamping too, thermography
    and embossing.\r\nEd\u2019s Souvenir was not at all informal or laid back, but
    rigorously stylized, very precisely drawn.\r\n\r\nRather than informal, one could
    say \u201Cfriendly\u201D, and that might explain how it became cloyingly so, when
    overly familiar.\r\nThe Light made an interesting effect in text.\r\nEd Benguiat
    continued to mine Art Nouveau, with his original designs Benguiat, also huge in
    the 70s, and Barcelona, not at all popular when it came out later.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    see why Souvenir should be vili\uFB01ed now, when rounded styles such as GE Sans
    have bowed diagonals, so Souvenir again, sure, and perhaps other original rounded
    serif designs. There have been some, but it\u2019s not an easy task, and Ed aced
    it.\r\n\r\nThe style really needs dramatic letter forms, such as art nouveau,
    to counteract the blandness of the soft \uFB01nish, small serifs, and low contrast."
  created: '2013-01-03 08:15:30'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Now, John (and everyone despising it), would you explain me why Souvenir
    is not good?\r\nIt\u2019s not a book-aimed text typeface.\r\n\r\nI used to dislike
    Souvenir (and nmany other late 19th century and 20th century typefaces which had
    a resurgence in the 1960s), but now that I have come full circle and learned to
    dig deeply into the turn of the century forms, I can no longer see Souvenir as
    a 1960s \"iconic\" alphabet: I just see an amazingly well crafted typeface, despite
    of taste.\r\n\r\nAgain, for clarity\u2019s sake, I am not looking at it as a typeface
    I\u2019d use to set a book, but you get my point, I hope.\r\n\r\nAnd while I am
    at it, I would need to know if someone could address me to the most complete,
    or better drawn, digital version of Windsor (I\u2019d need the regular and bold
    weight). Those available on MyFonts look similar, and it seems there are glyphs
    missing. And \"one size fits it all\", of course\u2026 :-)"
  created: '2013-01-03 19:24:25'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Ah, and I suppose it was a joke to compare Souvenir to Comic Sans: Comic
    Sans, no matter if one\u2019s like it or not, is just some casual handwriting
    turned into typeface format, but it is not a typeface.\r\nPapyrus is another beast,
    but it is a typeface."
  created: '2013-01-03 19:26:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The fact that the Art Noveau style turned out, eventually, to be worthy
    of a revival, however, means that Souvenir could indeed have been ahead of its
    time as well...</em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s not how being ahead or behind one\u2019s
    time is generally understood.\r\nBeing ahead means the bus hasn\u2019t arrived
    yet, not that you\u2019ve just missed it."
  created: '2013-01-03 22:54:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>In 1923 the original Souvenir was actually behind its
    time, with its art nouveau forms,</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed, that is true, which is
    precisely why it was unsuccessful and unfashionable at the time of its introduction.
    The fact that the Art Noveau style turned out, eventually, to be worthy of a revival,
    however, means that <em>Souvenir</em> could indeed have been ahead of its time
    <em>as well</em>... but while we're still dealing with an anachronism, it is not
    one of the kind that leads one to suspect a causality violation.\r\n\r\n@piccic:\r\n<cite>Papyrus
    is another beast, but it is a typeface.</cite>\r\n\r\nSouvenir is a typeface.
    In the sense that Comic Sans might not be one, as it's \"digitized handwriting\",
    one could say the same of Papyrus (or some more highly regarded typefaces, such
    as Mistral, Dom Casual, President...) to a lesser extent. (Ondine, on the other
    hand, seems too formal and regular to be vulnerable to this criticism/classification,
    and the same is true for a lot of the older formal script typefaces.)\r\n\r\nOne
    thing Comic Sans is not, though, is a satisfactory typeface (in the sense of the
    typeface vs. font distinction, which is value-free as far as where the vectors
    came from) for comic book/strip word balloon lettering. That may be \"digitized
    handwriting\", but it's still the product of genuine craftsmanship for its purpose
    - as a visit to the site\r\n\r\n[[http://www.comicraft.com/]]\r\n\r\nshould abundantly
    demonstrate. There's a reason why these guys can charge top dollar for their products,
    while competitors like\r\n\r\n[[http://www.blambot.com/]]\r\n[[http://canadatype.net/]]\r\n\r\nthat
    still produce good products struggle in their shadow.\r\n\r\n(Of course, part
    of the reason is that among the products of ComicCraft are very close imitations
    of the lettering of Artie Simek and Sam Rosen... and many of their other typefaces
    were designed in close collaboration with current letterers for Marvel, DC, and
    other major comics publishers.)\r\n\r\nGiven that, whatever the failings of Comic
    Sans may be, I'm a little uncomfortable with saying it's \"not a typeface\" because
    of its classification - although I'm happy to acknowledge that it does belong
    to a class of typeface that doesn't have much to do with the Trajan Column. \r\n\r\nOh,
    here, I'll just give you [[http://hayfamzone.blogspot.ca/2012/06/tribute-to-ben-oda.html|this
    link]].\r\n\r\nCalligraphy is not typography; but because calligraphy is worthy
    of respect, Freehand and Goudy Mediaeval are typefaces."
  created: '2013-01-03 23:13:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My point <em>was</em> that he just missed one bus, but he was still also
    there early for the next one.\r\n\r\nWhile it is by no means certain, it could
    be thought that his decision to make a typeface in the Art Nouveau style might
    have been due to a belief in the merits of that style as well as its current fashionability
    at the time he started the project, and that belief was in part validated as foresighted
    by the fact of that style's later revival."
  created: '2013-01-03 23:15:18'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: '@ John: Freehand and Goudy Medieval are typefaces for the same reason that
    Bodoni, Avant Garde, and Trajan are typefaces: They were all purpose-built for
    use with a mechanical, optical, or digital system that allows users to reproduce
    letters <em>ad infinitum</em> with no further effort from the person who designed
    the set of letters. '
  created: '2013-01-04 00:55:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@PublishingMojo:\r\nAnd isn't Comic Sans a typeface for that exact same reason
    as well?\r\n\r\nMy point may have been obscure, so I will make it clear.\r\n\r\nIt
    is one thing to say that Comic Sans \"is not a typeface\" in some metaphorical
    sense because one believes it to be lacking in quality.\r\n\r\nBut if you give
    as your explicit reason for saying that it \"is not a typeface\" that it belongs
    to the <em>genre</em> of handwriting faces... but you also still leave lying around
    hints that you wouldn't have said that if Comic Sans were a better face... then
    the existence of <em>good</em> handwriting faces exposes your (implicit!!) \"logic\"
    as self-contradictory.\r\n\r\nVent on Comic Sans all you like, but don't destroy
    the meaning of the word \"typeface\" in the process."
  created: '2013-01-04 03:28:20'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "@ John, I agree completely, Comic Sans is a typeface. The beauty of typefaces
    is that there's an almost infinite range of design possibilities. The only thing
    they have in common is that they're adapted to a process that automates the replication
    of letters. \r\n\r\nI'm not a fan of Comic Sans, but there are places where it's
    the perfect choice. There are even situations where Souvenir is the perfect choice.
    Here's one:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Spam-Front_3495.jpg]"
  created: '2013-01-04 17:08:03'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>but there are places where it's the perfect choice.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nJust
    because it is well established or even infamous does not mean that it is perfect.
    I like Spam but there is nothing about the packaging that strikes me as appealing."
  created: '2013-01-05 10:26:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Actually, there are a lot of similarities\u2014at least tonally\u2014between
    Souvenir and Oz Cooper\u2019s <em>original</em> design for his eponymous face.
    Bitstream\u2019s revival of Cooper Light/Medium really bastardized the typeface,
    IMHO. In any event, I find both Souvenir and Cooper to be excellent text faces
    when you want to convey a warm and inviting message\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-05 14:03:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Karl, I\u2019m thinking Spam needs to diversify.\r\nOrganic, Tofam, and Classic."
  created: '2013-01-05 18:54:12'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Karl, I think the Spam packaging is more appealing than the contents.\r\n\r\nNick,
    I agree. I always thought of Souvenir as the \"comfort food\" of fonts. How or
    in what ways did \"Bitstream\u2019s revival of Cooper Light/Medium really bastardized
    the typeface\"?"
  created: '2013-01-05 20:37:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As I once called it (on Typo-L) Souvenir is the Golden Retriever of the font
    world. Big, cute, stupid, lovable (by people who don't know what a dog is supposed
    to be).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 20:41:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Steve,\r\n\r\nIf you saw the original cuts from Barnhart Brothers and Spindler\u2019s
    Catalog #25 for Cooper, you\u2019d see what I mean: Cooper\u2019s original letterforms
    were delightfully quirky, and far more suggestive of hand-lettering that Bitstream\u2019s
    homogenized outlines."
  children:
  - author:
      name: HVB
      picture: 111370
    body: "NickC - Wordshape claims to have used that catalog to create their 2011
      version of  [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/wordshape/cooper-text/|Cooper Oldstyle
      and Cooper Text]].  I haven't tried to compare this with URW's 1999 \"Cooper
      Old Style\".\r\n\r\n - Herb"
    created: '2013-01-05 22:49:37'
  created: '2013-01-05 21:31:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>would you explain me why Souvenir is not good?</em>\r\n\r\n'Great' was
    the term Nick used, perhaps not entirely seriously.\r\n\r\nI find Souvenir a poorly
    coordinated mix of mostly quite dull letterforms combined with a handful of eccentric
    letters. The only thing they have in common is blobby serifs. In this regard --
    internal consistency of the design, successful application of an idea across the
    full range of characters --, Comic Sans is a superior piece of work."
  created: '2013-01-06 03:34:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, I was entirely serious.\r\n\r\nSome of the letterforms are quite novel,
    but many follow an established Art Nouveau pattern; overall they are well matched
    and \uFB01t nicely.\r\nThe theme of bowed diagonals is consistently applied, with
    the occasional exception, to produce full counters, and that theme is continued
    in letters such as /a, /e and /g.\r\n\r\nThe bowed diagonals are echoed in the
    triangular bowls of /B, /P and /R in a manner that is used in a genre of Art Nouveau
    types.\r\nThe full counters work with the small serifs in the tight \uFB01t, to
    drive white space inside letters, not between, for a controlled and individual
    text colour. The narrowness of /f and /t also speak to this colour.\r\n\r\nThe
    capitals are pretty much the same width\u2014this too is a consistent theme.\r\nThe
    /v and /y do not share the same shape, but that would be simplistic consistency
    if they were, whereas here the principle that is adhered to is \u201Chow far can
    this letter be bent/opened up?\u201D\u2014and in that respect, the /y references
    other /y\u2019s that follow the \u201Cu\u201D construction."
  created: '2013-01-06 06:28:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@HVB\u2014\r\n\r\nWordshape\u2019s interpretation is a lot closer to Cooper\u2019s
    original cuts, although it\u2019s hard to tell, given the vagaries of font rendering
    in different browsers. What is difficult to capture in a digital font formats
    are the <strong>variations in letterform depending on point size</strong> that
    Cooper employed. Sometimes, \u201Cnew\u201D is not necessarily \u201Cimproved\u201D\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-06 11:55:41'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "John Hudson: \"Comic Sans is a superior piece of work\" [compared to Souvenir].\r\n\r\nWow!
    Really? That says more about you, John, than it does about Souvenir.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-06 20:23:57'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I think my comment was enough clear, and quadibloc understood in general
    what I meant.\r\nI do not feel at ease with Comic Sans simply because it is not
    \"designed\", neither by construction nor by lettering standards. I mean, with
    digital type design you can turn any set of letters into typeface format, but
    this does not mean Comic Sans is a typeface for the lettering of comic books.
    As quadibloc already explained, lettering for comic books is usually detailed,
    accurately crafted. Comic Sans was designed to work onscreen, and it does his
    work, but let\u2019s not call it what is not. Namely, what is an \"handwitten\"
    face? Just use handwriting.\r\n \r\nMaybe my eyes are not yet trained enough,
    but I really cannot see all the problems in Souvenir, which I consider a thoroughly
    accomplished type design. I used to hate most of the typefaces of the turn of
    the century which got \"revived\" in the 1960s but now I see them in a more correct
    light.\r\nHonestly, John, I can\u2019t see all the \"poor cordination\", and Nick
    (Shinn) has already replied in a way better way than I could have possibly done
    myself. I generally go by eye, and Souvenir is harmonic, no matter if the forms
    are more or less decorative, or straying from \"established model\". Those are
    not, strictly speaking, the only parameters which determine an inherent quality
    of a typeface.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-06 20:33:34'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: '@oldnick and HVB: Ian Lynam is really a super-fan of Oz Cooper, and I think
    he did a remarkable work. He gave me the typefaces when he released it, but I
    did not use them. I am pretty sure, however, he choose a point size and developed
    the typeface taking account of the proper spacing for that size. Then, he may
    or may not decide to design other sizes, but I seem to get his digitization is
    pretty accurate.'
  created: '2013-01-06 20:36:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Souvenir is Benton's reworking of an earlier German face, Schelter Antiqua.
    The [[http://typophile.com/node/14230|typowiki article on Souvenir]] tells the
    story, with a link to an example of the italic of Schelter Antiqua, which is indeed
    more Art Nouveau style, as Nick notes.\r\n\r\nI am on Claudio's side on this one
    about it being well designed. I would say, though, that the caps are more successful
    than the lower case. Signs using its all caps are not cloying, whereas those using
    the lower case tend to be. "
  created: '2013-01-07 00:02:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Renaissance Man:\r\n<cite>Wow! Really? That says more about you, John, than
    it does about Souvenir.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, though, you forgot his very important
    qualification: \"In this regard\".\r\n\r\nThe capitals and lower-case of Souvenir,
    he claims, were not well-coordinated. Comic Sans does not have that particular
    fault. It may be a piece of garbage aesthetically, but it's unified, harmonious,
    and consistent garbage.\r\n\r\nIt doesn't make John Hudson a bad person to say
    that Comic Sans is, therefore, superior to Souvenir in respect of this particular
    aspect of polish, even if in general Comic Sans is a piece of useless garbage
    and Souvenir is a slightly flawed but still highly useful and beautiful typeface.\r\n\r\nHe
    was just expressing a truth that was, unfortunately, liable to being misconstrued."
  created: '2013-01-07 00:56:16'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@quadibloc &ndash; It was bound to happen that somebody would rip something
    out of context. It's one of these Universal Rules, tha noo...\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I rather like Souvenir. It leaves me thinking of ETI (Electronics Today International)
    and wanting to build a co-processor card for my Speccy."
  created: '2013-01-07 13:13:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Well, no typeface is \"perfect\" but it is not a mere matter \"taste\" to
    judge if an alphabet is well drawn and accomplished. I understand better John\u2019s
    comments but I still think it is nonsense to compare a properly designed typeface
    for print to Comic Sans. Which happens to be used in print, but remains a collection
    of casual handwritten letterforms, and I honestly miss its appeal as a typeface.
    It remains a generic informal set of handwritten letters, to my eyes.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to quadibloc which seems to have a thorough eye in considering all aspects\u2026
    :-)\r\n\r\nNow, back to my topic: William, many thanks, that\u2019s great. But
    I still can\u2019t find good printed examples of the original Souvenir. And about
    the two german typefaces which influenced it: wow, the italic of Schelter-Antiqua
    is great. Do you know where more examples can be found, and of Tauchnitz-Antiqua
    as well?"
  created: '2013-01-07 17:44:24'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: P.S. Of course I checked the links provided by Herb, but the image quality
    is not so good. Any other source?
  created: '2013-01-07 17:46:00'
date: '2012-12-30 22:22:16'
node_type: forum
title: "Morris Fuller Benton\u2019s Souvenir"

---
