---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "If I upgrade to Windows 8, what kinds of font-related issues should I expect
  to run into? Specifically in terms of making (and testing) fonts. (No Mac jokes
  please. :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The most notable difference between Windows 8 and previous versions, in terms
    of fonts, is the new assymetric greyscale with subpixel positioning rendering
    in the Metro environment. The good news about this is that it is considerably
    better than I feared, and still manages to provide better stroke density than
    Apple's full fuzz rendering.
  created: '2012-12-31 03:32:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool.\r\nWhat about font tools (not working [right])?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 03:54:07'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: In windows 7, you could re-install fonts and have the new version appear after
    restarting Adobe apps. Now that no longer works, and you have to restart to get
    updated fonts to appear. I don't use any font management tools. Fontlab works
    just fine.
  children:
  - author:
      name: apankrat
    body: "> <em>In windows 7, you could re-install fonts and have the new version
      appear after restarting Adobe apps. Now that no longer works, and you have to
      restart to get updated fonts to appear.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd try removing the font
      first and then installing an updated version.\r\n"
    created: '2013-01-04 09:48:19'
  created: '2012-12-31 03:57:30'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "\"Upgrade\" from what and to what flavour of Windows 8? You'll encounter
    many more differences if you're coming from XP to 64-bit Windows 8 than if you
    moving from Win 7 to Win 8.\r\n\r\nI just unhappily moved from Windows XP to Windows
    7 Home Premium (64) and find that almost none of my favourite command line utilities
    are functional. I may upgrade to Windows 7 Professional - they SAY that some of
    the 32-bit/64-bit incompatibilities are resolved, as is better support for compatibility
    with older Windows versions.\r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2012-12-31 04:39:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll be getting a new laptop - and it's hard to find a Win7 system (plus
    I've heard horror stories about downgrading OSes, and it would cost more). My
    current one (which is a dinosaur, but it's the <em>king</em> of dinosaurs) is
    running XP (like a rock) and at least I can see all the rendering problems so
    many users see but so many foundries look away from... But anyway I use Win7 systems
    often, and I like it. BTW I've heard good things about Win8 in terms of backwards
    compatibility; and the other day I connected a funky no-name external DVD drive
    into a Win8 ultrabook and it \"just worked\" within seconds.\r\n\r\nConcerning
    what Jeremy said: I wonder if a font management tool fixes that issue; but I really
    don't want to resort to one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-31 05:00:40'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: The good thing is that my win 8 computer (and most, I assume, as this machine
    is new, albeit with middling specs) reboots in 10 seconds, so it is not a huge
    deal. That is not an exaggeration. A SSD in hybrid mode is amazing.
  created: '2012-12-31 19:24:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'As I understand it, Windows 8 deals primarily with touch-screen issues, so
    there''s no need to upgrade if you''re running a Grandpa Box, like me.  One thing
    I find especially appealing about Win7 64-bit Pro is its virtual machines: you
    can run programs as old as Windows 95 (maybe even older) in their own space, no
    sweat.'
  created: '2012-12-31 21:42:56'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Nick - AFAIK, that's true for Win7 Professional, but not l\r\nesser versions.\r\n\r\n
    - Herb "
  created: '2012-12-31 22:46:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@hrant\r\nLaptopisaurus Rex, eh?  Mine died some months back but I had already
    received a Dell with Win7 that I had ordered in anticipation of the dreaded passing
    of ol' reliable.\r\n\r\nThe Win7 Dell Latitude has the \"XP Mode\" virtual machine
    installed and I've found it best to just migrate everything font related to XP.
    Win7 gave trouble with various pieces of my font workflow from the get-go so I
    just avoided the problems completely by sticking with XP running in a virtual
    machine.\r\n\r\nI've tried to imagine at what point this setup will fail me but
    you know, I really can't see with what or how it would give me trouble.  \r\n\r\nWin7
    running as the parent OS gives me access to IE9 and other upgrades that won't
    load in XP for testing so it's the best of both worlds so far. \r\n "
  created: '2013-01-01 22:35:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">the new assymetric greyscale with subpixel positioning rendering in the
    Metro environment\r\n\r\nHaven't come across this, is there info anywhere, John?"
  created: '2013-01-03 16:45:52'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "@Richard, that is exactly the setup I have with my Latitude. I also have
    the disc option of running a 64 or 32 bit Win7 platform.\r\n\r\nDoes your Latitude
    over heat? Mine gets really warm.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-01-03 17:44:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do you run 32-bit for running old software? Like what?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-03 17:51:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ben, here is a good general description of the change in font rendering in
    Win8, with examples:\r\nhttp://www.extremetech.com/computing/138816-windows-8-the-desktop-review/3\r\n\r\nBroadly
    speaking, there are now three main ClearType rendering modes (with some version-specific
    variations in the GDI rendering):\r\n\r\nGDI : x-direction colour subpixel antialiasing,
    no y-direction antialiasing, full-pixel spacing.\r\n\r\nDWrite : x- direction
    colour subpixel antialiasing, y-direction greyscale antialiasing, sub-pixel positioning.\r\n\r\nMetro
    : x-direction greyscale subpixel antialiasing, y-direction greyscale antialiasing,
    sub-pixel positioning. [Note also: at small sizes the x,y antialiasing is asymmetric,
    at larger sizes it is symmetric.]\r\n\r\nAll three of these rendering environments
    may be encountered in Windows 8."
  created: '2013-01-03 21:25:05'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "I use [[http://classicshell.sourceforge.net/|Classic Shell]] to start my
    Windows 8 system in desktop mode and provide a Windows 7 style start button. I
    don't think I could continue to use it on a laptop or desktop otherwise.  \r\n\r\nI'm
    not aware of any font-related compatibility differences from Windows 7. \r\n\r\nIn
    general, the metro interface is designed to remove features and reduce choice
    to make the system more useful on tablets and phones. Even for something like
    a mail client or a web browser, I don't want to be stuck in full screen mode on
    a laptop or desktop.  \r\n\r\nI'm also quite fond of having directories and files
    and knowing where they are in the file system."
  created: '2013-01-03 21:27:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Interesting, thanks John. I'm not clear how the Metro x-direction antialiasing
    is 'subpixel' since it's using only greyscale. Wasn't the whole point of ClearType
    that the only sub-pixel elements available are the red, green and blue components
    of a pixel?
  created: '2013-01-06 13:18:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Subpixel may not be the best word, or maybe I need to distinguish between
    sub-pixel and subpixel. I would classify Metro greyscale as sub-pixel rendering
    by virtue of it using supersampled outlines with fractional positioning. This
    means that the pixel tint is determined by where the outline falls sub-pixel.
  created: '2013-01-06 23:02:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ah, I wondered if this was the case. Does the 'asymmetric' antialiasing mean
    that horizontal stems are confined to full pixel positioning?
  created: '2013-01-07 11:34:48'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Does the 'asymmetric' antialiasing mean that horizontal stems are confined
    to full pixel positioning?</em>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nIn DirectWrite you can control
    at what pixel size range(s) asymmetric/symmetric antialiasing should be applied.
    You need a <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/gasp.htm\">version
    1 gasp table</a> for that and use the GASP_SYMMETRIC_SMOOTHING flag.\r\n\r\nIf
    a version 0 gasp table is present (or, iirc, a v 1 gasp table without the symmetric
    smoothing flag), symmetric smoothing will be applied from 21 ppm upwards."
  created: '2013-01-07 16:44:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Does the 'asymmetric' antialiasing mean that horizontal stems are confined
    to full pixel positioning?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. In the context of Metro rendering,
    asymmetric refers to the difference in x- and y-direction supersampling (at text
    sizes). The rendering is 8x4 greyscale, meaning that the x-direction antialiasing
    has double the senstitivity of the y-direction antialiasing. Because of the sub-pixel
    fractional positioning, the x-direction benefits from this higher sampling resolution
    to maintain decent stroke contrast, whereas the y-direction, which is constrained
    to full pixels, can make do with a lower supersampling. At larger sizes, the Metro
    renderer switches to symmetric 4x4."
  created: '2013-01-07 18:00:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'This is the second time I''ve heard mention of the ''greyscale'' rendering
    of sub pixels. I''m confused as to how ''greyscale'' and sub-pixel rendering work
    together (since sub-pixels, by definition, are not greyscale). '
  created: '2013-01-07 18:07:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "See my response to Ben, above.\r\n\r\nI think we should try to make a distinction
    between subpixels as physical divisions of a pixel and sub-pixel as fractional
    implementation of pixel rendering that affects outcomes. The Metro greyscale rendering
    is sub-pixel on the grounds that the fractional positioning of the outline affects
    the pixel tint."
  created: '2013-01-07 19:13:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">The Metro greyscale rendering is sub-pixel on the grounds that the fractional
    positioning of the outline affects the pixel tint.\r\n\r\nThis is what I'm not
    quite getting. Isn't that true of all anti-aliasing?"
  created: '2013-01-07 20:10:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I understand sub pixel...in that only parts of a pixel may be used to render
    the outline on screen. And because it''s not a ''whole'' pixel, it will be colored.
    That''s why I don''t understand the term ''greyscale'' being used to describe
    it. '
  created: '2013-01-07 21:20:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>This is what I'm not quite getting. Isn't that true of all anti-aliasing?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    because in previous antialiasing glyphs have been positioned on full pixel widths,
    i.e. the 0,0 coordinate of each glyph's advance width has always been positioned
    on the leading edge of a pixel. This was also true of ClearType subpixel rendering
    in the GDI implementation. This accounts for sometimes uneven spacing in traditional
    greyscale and GDI ClearType.\r\n\r\nIn DirectWrite ClearType and Metro greyscale
    antialiasing, fractional sub-pixel positioning is used, i.e. the 0,0 coordinate
    of a glyph may occur anywhere within the pixel. What is means is that spacing
    is much more even, but that there is variation in the actual pixel pattern for
    the same glyph at different places in a line of text. In the Metro greyscale rendering,
    this variation displays as differences in the grey tint of pixels (in DWrite CT
    it displays as differences in the colour tinting, and is generally more prevelant
    and noticeable than in the Metro greyscale). This is why I classify the Metro
    greyscale antialiasing as 'sub-pixel', because the pixel tint is being affected
    by the position of the glyph according to fractional positioning.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-07 21:51:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here's a pretty good illustration:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NirmalaBoldMetroGDI_3549.png]\r\n\r\nOn
    the left is the Metro greyscale antialiasing (this screen capture was from the
    public beta of Win8; I don't know if the rendering was further tweaked for the
    release version); on the right is the same text string in GDI ClearType antialiasing.
    Zoom in to see the use of grey only in the Metro rendering and colour in the GDI
    CT. Note that stem weights are more consistent in the GDI CT rendering, but spacing
    is more consistent in the Metro rendering. Note particularly the above-line clash
    of the reph mark and following ikar in the GDI CT rendering, which has resulted
    from the full-pixel positioning bringing the latter too close; this is much better
    with the Metro fractional positioning (but would be better still with DWrite CT,
    which would have better stem weight consistency).\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-07 21:59:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Metro greyscale antialiasing\"\r\n\r\nAh! That makes sense, as antialiasing
    uses the entire pixel, it can truly be grayscale (or in this example, matched
    to the type color).\r\n\r\nIt gets confusing when when the term 'sub-pixel' and
    grayscale are used together...but the term 'fractional positioning' helps clear
    that up (my understanding is that Metro uses full-pixel anti-aliasing but allows
    the glyph borders to land in the middle (or some fraction thereof) a pixel). \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-07 23:05:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'and that''s likely a natural path to take. Sub-pixel font smoothing has a
    limited remaining shelf life given mobile (rotatable) screens and high-ppi screens.
    The Win8 method would seem to be applicable for those uses. '
  created: '2013-01-07 23:07:44'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thank you for your patient explanation, John, I see the distinction. I presume
    one implication of the Metro sub-pixel positioning (and the DWrite CT) is that
    x-hinting instructions are ignored, since they're trying to align the stems to
    whole pixels so that glyphs have a consistent appearance when rasterised? Or do
    I need to learn more about hinting before that starts to make sense?\r\n\r\n>In
    the context of Metro rendering, asymmetric refers to the difference in x- and
    y-direction supersampling (at text sizes). The rendering is 8x4 greyscale, meaning
    that the x-direction antialiasing has double the senstitivity of the y-direction
    antialiasing. \r\n\r\nWhat's supersampling? I'm guessing it's the way the rasteriser
    is looking at glyph outlines and deciding how much black to put into each pixel.
    If that's right, then it seems that 8x4 greyscale means that each pixel is assessed
    by breaking it down and looking at how many of the 32 virtual sub pixels the outline
    covers, which results in the pixel being attributed one of 32 different levels
    of grey."
  created: '2013-01-07 23:10:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's just a damn shame it looks worse than GDI.  :-/\r\n\r\nWhy sacrifice
    the quality just because you can rotate a screen? So what if text looks slightly
    different depending on how you're holding a device?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-07 23:11:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What's supersampling?</em>\r\n\r\nThink of a glyph outline being stretched
    to a larger number of pixels than actually requested for the target display size/resolution,
    and then the mapping of the outline to those pixels being downsampled (like a
    scaled down JPEG) relative to the requested size. So in the case of an 8x4 asymmetric
    supersampling, each pixel in the requested ppem size is first represented by 8
    horizontal pixels and 4 vertical pixels, and then scaled down to the requested
    size. Obviously at larger sizes more refinement of the relationship of outline
    to pixels is possible and hence more antialiasing precision (samples) is available.
    This captured information influences the rendering at the target size, where the
    relationships that were relative to pixel dimensions in the supersampling become
    relative to sub-pixel dimensions in the final rendering."
  created: '2013-01-08 00:58:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Rotating screens may be a factor, but I believe the issue for Win8 was lack
    of time to optimise the ClearType code to reduce performance hits in the heavily
    animated Metro UI. Simply put, the greyscale rendering is faster. If the ClearType
    code can be optimised to make it render quickly enough to meet the Metro developers'
    requirements, I hope it will be reinstated for Win9. The stroke density is much
    better.
  created: '2013-01-08 01:01:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Performance certainly may have been a priority.\r\n\r\nBut it also seems
    like Microsoft really wants Win8 to succeed on the tablet. I think both the screen
    rotation and higher PPI of that screen would justify this method (IMHO). \r\n\r\n\"Why
    sacrifice the quality just because you can rotate a screen?\"\r\n\r\nWell, one
    argument would be consistency. Having type look better in one rotation than the
    other might not be the best user experience. (But I'm not even sure if that's
    really all that important anyways, as I *think* most of the handheld Win8 devices
    are using high PPI screens, so sub-pixel rendering is likely moot).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-08 06:00:33'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> But it also seems like Microsoft really wants Win8 to succeed on the tablet.
    \r\n\r\nYep, tablet sales are growing rapidly while PC sales are stagnating. Many
    analysts are predicting that tablet sales will exceed laptop sales within a few
    years. "
  created: '2013-01-08 06:47:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I really don't think the whole rotation question played a role in the switch
    to the Windows 8 greyscale rendering. Remember, the alternative -- already implemented
    through most of the development cycle -- was DWrite ClearType, so there was already
    bidrectional antialiasing (unlike GDI). If tablet and phone rotation had been
    a concern for text rendering, I would expect this to have been something addressed
    quite early in the new operating system development cycle. The Metro greyscale
    rendering was implemented at the last minute, after initial beta versions of Win8
    had shipped with ClearType, in response to performance complaints.
  created: '2013-01-08 07:18:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/entitled_3929.png]\r\n\r\nDid you specify
    grey, or is it time to change the ribbon?  \"On the left...\" is both specified
    and set in black type, off windows. :)"
  created: '2013-01-08 12:58:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yes, the illustration text -- taken from a website viewed in different versions
    of IE with different renderings -- was spec'd grey. For illustrating the differences
    between the rendering models, it could have been pink, orange, purple or, indeed,
    black. It just happened that the example I had to hand was grey, but I should
    have mentioned that in case anyone thought it was intended to be black.
  created: '2013-01-08 18:19:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I might have been suspicious too but recently saw another comparison (in
    black) and concluded that GDI was better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-08 19:47:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Anotherxample_6337.png]\r\n\r\nThis one
    too? (from your link above). "
  created: '2013-01-08 23:02:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"For illustrating the differences between the rendering models, it could
    have been pink, orange, purple or, indeed, black\"\r\n\r\nReally. I think, when
    comparing rendering or any kind, but especially one that involves color subpixelation
    vs one that doesn't, an appropriate comparison cannot be done without black. "
  created: '2013-01-08 23:18:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, what are you getting at?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-08 23:32:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'David, if the purpose is to compare for particular purpose, I fully agree,
    especially if that purpose is reading text. I just wanted to illustrate different
    characteristics of the two rendering systems, for which purpose I considered the
    screenshot that I had on hand to be sufficient: you can see the difference in
    spacing and the difference in stroke weight regularity and density.'
  created: '2013-01-08 23:39:33'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "\"If I upgrade to Windows 8, ...\"\r\n\r\nDon't upgrade. Buy a new computer.
    Read the following:\r\n\r\nWalter Mossberg (WSJ) on upgrading:  www.j.mp/w8noup\r\n\r\nThomas
    De Maesschalck: Two months with Windows 8 www.j.mp/win666 "
  created: '2013-01-10 02:30:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for the tips. Actually I was never planning on upgrading my Rex; the
    plan is to get a new machine. And I've decided to go for Win7 Ultimate with XP
    support.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-10 02:45:22'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Win7 the New XP SP3?\r\nIf you\u2019re still running Windows XP, take the
    time to review your options. Microsoft ends support for XP in 15 months, on April
    14, 2014\u2014the last official day the OS will get security updates. With the
    verdict still out on Windows 8, now might be a good time to give yourself the
    present of a new Windows 7 machine. Think of Win7 as the \u201Cnew XP SP3.\u201D
    It might be the next long-lasting, long-supported Windows operating system that
    Microsoft will need to pry our fingers from.\r\n\t\u2014Susan Bradley, WindowsSecrets.com,
    Dec. 6, 2012"
  created: '2013-01-10 02:50:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Sorry for my tardy return....\r\n\r\nhrant:  For font production, I think
    you made the right decision. And yes, I just migrated my entire setup from WinXP
    to XP running in XP Mode.  I suppose if I had really had the time to spend, I
    could have gotten everything going OK in Win7 64 bit, but what for? A waste of
    time.  Everything I use was built during the XP era. I don't have the patience
    for tweaking a Windows configuration anymore. Sucker broke my command line scripts
    and that was it - back to XP in XP Mode. \r\n\r\n5star:  I run my Latitude and
    ANY laptop I own on a cooling pad so I'm not sure if it's getting too hot or not.\r\nAs
    for running 32 bit apps - see my response to hrant above.\r\n\r\nBTW - Nice to
    see MSFT finally enter the tablet/touchscreen fray after watching, watching, watching
    endlessly it seemed. But \"creative imitation\" has always been their strategy
    and it requires watching the other players for awhile before entering the market.\r\n\r\nI
    think it will work yet again and we'll see a major rebound. And I like how they
    took their myopic fixation with developing a stylus-on-screen interface and found
    a way to turn it into a plus.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 23:03:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Renaissance Man:\r\n\r\nI don't believe MSFT will discontinue security updates
    by that date -April 14, 2014.\r\nThat might be what they are announcing but I'll
    believe it when I see it.\r\n\r\nAnd......  since I'm not running Office apps
    or anything sensitive within the XP Virtual Machine, I really don't care if they
    freeze security support or not.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 23:09:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Richard,\r\n\r\n\u201CCreative imitation\u201D may be a misnomer in this
    case. From what I can gather, Windows 8 Metro interface is considered to be the
    wave of the future\u2014less is more, if you will. The whole Apple thrust\u2014higher
    res, more glitz\u2014turns the interface into a bandwidth hog, which is great
    for the IPSs, but it totally lousy for the people who have to pay for that bandwidth.
    If I were a person given to conspiracy theories (which, I am, but I don't want
    to advertise it), I would aver that Apple's ultra-high-res approach to tabs/mobile/etc.
    has been developed in cahoots with carriers to ensure that that maximum amount
    of data transfer occurs (billable units) at any time. Win 7 Pro 64-bit rules.
    Totally. Indubitably. My story and I\u2019m sticking to it\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-17 00:51:04'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Windows 8 Metro interface is considered to be the wave of the future\r\n\r\nMaybe,
    but Win 8 PCs and tablets are selling poorly so far. Google for numerous news
    articles about disappointing sales."
  created: '2013-01-17 01:25:20'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Maybe, but Win 8 PCs and tablets are selling poorly so far.\r\n\r\nWell,
    f--k ME!\r\nIt's JamesM! \r\nHow ya been? And Happy New Year.\r\nBeen taking your
    Tourettes medication I see....\r\n\r\nWell - as far as Microsoft and tablets -
    in da woids of da foundah, \"We are patient people\".\r\n\r\nMe (and my wife,
    too) will most definitely buy a Surface Pro Tablet at some point in the next year
    and I agree with <a href=\"http://pogue.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/01/10/microsofts-surface-pro-tablet-changes-the-game/\">David
    Pogue that it's a game changer</a>.\r\nOddly, it got released post-Christmas.
    \ (So slow sales, no surprise. But it wasn't designed to be a stocking stuffer
    anyway. It would have just gotten lost in the shuffle - to its detriment.)\r\n\r\nIf
    someone is used to Windows software and they need to stick with some legacy apps
    but yet \"move up\" to Win8, what's the other choice for the average user? Especially
    business users? Nothing as far as I can see.\r\n(Hey, haven't we seen this before?)\r\n\r\nI
    think they have to be careful about price, though. Over the long term, Android
    mobiles are going to be constantly biting them in the ass from below and the one
    thing they can't afford is to hold an umbrella over them. If you space enough
    hundred dollar bills between the two options then Google Docs starts looking better
    and better.\r\n\r\nI use Apple products on a daily basis and their reputation
    for ease of use is bullshit. Good quality hardware, yeah.  And it holds its value
    well - I've never lost money on an iPhone resale yet. \r\nBut it still costs too
    much and all I get for the money is glitz.\r\n\r\nWhat was this thread about again?"
  created: '2013-01-17 03:40:12'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Well, f--k ME! It's JamesM! ...Been taking your \r\n> Tourettes medication
    I see\r\n\r\nHuh? Are you confusing me with someone else? \r\n\r\nAnyway, the
    Surface Pro Tablet (which won't be released until several weeks from now) may
    indeed turn out to be a game changer; the early reviews have been excellent. We'll
    have to see if the price is going to be an issue, as it's around $1,000 if you
    get the optional keyboard cover."
  created: '2013-01-17 06:08:39'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Windows 8: The Animated Evaluation \r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTYet-qf1jo\r\n\r\nSince
    MS can't even do software right, why would they (or anyone else) think they could
    do hardware any better?"
  created: '2013-01-17 08:30:34'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> Maybe, but Win 8 PCs and tablets are selling poorly so far. Google for
    numerous news articles about disappointing sales.\r\n\r\nI think this is mostly
    due to Microsoft mixing to UIs in one package. \r\n\r\nI really like Metro styling
    and I think it's head and shoulders above the embarrassing piece of junk that
    Vista/W7 UI is. It's just that you can't throw two UI styles together and expect
    people to like the change."
  created: '2013-01-17 09:21:15'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Richard,\r\n\r\n\u201CCreative imitation\u201D may be a misnomer in this
    case. From what I can gather, Windows 8 Metro interface is considered to be the
    wave of the future\u2014less is more, if you will. The whole Apple thrust\u2014higher
    res, more glitz\u2014turns the interface into a bandwidth hog, which is great
    for the ISPs, but it totally lousy for the people who have to pay for that bandwidth.
    If I were a person given to conspiracy theories (which, I am, but I don't like
    to advertise it\u2026too often), I would aver that Apple's ultra-high-res approach
    to tabs/mobile/etc. has been developed in cahoots with carriers to ensure that
    that maximum amount of data transfer occurs (billable units) at any time. Win
    7 Pro 64-bit rules. Totally. Indubitably. My story and I\u2019m sticking to it\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-17 12:32:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think the Metro UI is really intriguing. I will be curious to try it out
    myself some time.\r\n\r\nI am less impressed with the new text rendering, the
    so-called \u201Cgrayscale ClearType.\u201D It seems like a mild step backwards.
    Fuzzier, yet no less sensitive to the font\u2019s hinting."
  created: '2013-01-19 01:02:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "TP><em>I am less impressed with the new text rendering, the so-called \u201Cgrayscale
    ClearType.\u201D It seems like a mild step backwards. Fuzzier, yet no less sensitive
    to the font\u2019s hinting.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, this is making me leery, too.\r\n\r\nAlso
    - to all - the Surface Pro - the version of the Surface that runs Win7 programs
    - is not yet available in stores so there are, as yet, no sales numbers to talk
    about."
  created: '2013-01-20 19:11:37'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Windows 8: The Animated Evaluation\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTYet-qf1jo"
  created: '2013-01-20 19:28:14'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Steve,\r\n\r\nThanks for the link, but the auteur is obviously enamored of
    his own powers and abilities, far beyond those of mortal men, and \u2014therefore\u2014an
    unreliable source\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-21 00:32:38'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: It was more for amusement ... but not without some truth. You could also enter
    Windows 8 in the YouTube search box.
  created: '2013-01-21 03:59:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hrant: David, what are you getting at?\r\n\r\nWell, you asked what font related
    bla bla bla Windows 8 bla bla bla. \r\n\r\nMy point, as illustrated far above,
    aside from the indic of Hudson's grey, is that this windows renderer, and all
    CT rendings i have seen so far, (when the stem is between 1 and 2, or 2 and 3
    device pixels), is lighter than it should be.\r\n\r\nThat's a relative lighter
    for sure, so I'll qualify it as being lighter than everything but other versions
    of itself, where everything includes the Mac, all other non windows renderers
    and print, of compatible stroke width of course. \r\n\r\nZoom around the glyph
    yourselves, doing your best with asymmetrical rendering, right? The y stems are
    color retarded towards high contrast, losing the actual remainder pixels which
    are whitened (CT) or lightend (CTDW), and the renderer must compensate on the
    x stems or else all fonts would have to be redrawn. (MS original, barely heeded,
    recommendation). \r\n\r\nYou can see this clearly happening exactly as John describes
    it in my last posted specimen. Mac has no contrast, windows has a little more,
    and windows? it's all lighter, even when it's not specified as grey. \r\n\r\nThat
    is my windows 8 problem. But still, I can't wait to get my hands on a loaded surface
    super pro with a telephonic keyboard, surroundish sound and a built in widescreen
    projector for impromptu elevator disco parties, and then read on the iPad later.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-21 21:20:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, I get your point now - thanks for explaining.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-21 22:53:48'
date: '2012-12-31 00:59:36'
node_type: forum
title: Windows 8 Font Issues?

---
