---
author:
  name: dumpling
body: "Why does software have me select font size in \"points\"?\r\n\r\nHow (other
  than trial and error) am I to select proper \"point\" size in order to get the characters
  to be a certain height and/or width? Seriously.\r\n\r\nI recently designed some
  calendars in CorelDRAW and the <em>only</em> way I could know the size of characters
  I had selected was to measure them with the on-screen ruler.\r\n\r\nSame thing with
  the position of the characters. Even if I only want a single line of text, there
  is still obligatory whitespace above and below, which I have to measure and compensate
  for. I deal with text boxes overlapping, even when the text itself does not even
  come close to overlapping; it is the fault of this obligatory whitespace.\r\n\r\nAre
  there standard ways of dealing with these issues?"
comments:
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "I'm not familiar with CorelDraw, but in Adobe Creative Suite, there are tools
    to adjust the spacing between lines so you can set consecutive lines as close
    as you want within the same text box. \r\n\r\nIt's true that points and picas
    are artifacts of extinct technology, like furlongs and fortnights. And it's counterintuitive
    that the 36-point sizes of different faces have widely different cap heights and
    x-heights. But once you get the hang of it, you can easily tweak the size of a
    font to the desired cap height or x-height. I usually do it visually rather than
    with the ruler, or set guides to check alignment.\r\n\r\nLike the QWERTY keyboard,
    the point system survives mainly because that's what the majority of users are
    familiar with. Anyone attempting to get users to switch to a new system would
    have to overcome a huge amount of inertia. \r\n\r\nHere in the US, where we're
    more afraid of the metric system than we are of psychos with machine guns, the
    printer's point serves another useful purpose: At 1/72 of an inch (0.35 mm), it's
    about the smallest increment that can be seen with the naked eye."
  created: '2013-01-04 18:48:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Letters don't fit in straightjackets - what can you do?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>[1/72
    is] about the smallest increment that can be seen with the naked eye.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nShirly
    you can't be serious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-04 19:22:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Are there standard ways of dealing with these issues?</em>\r\n\r\nYes:
    they are called Patience and Discipline. Study them well, Grasshopper\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-04 19:51:08'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: Are there any units of measurement that are not meaningless (in the way you
    are defining it)? Feet for example seems quite silly since we all have different
    sized feet. Meters is even less tied to a perceivable phenomenon. And throw in
    variations of pixel size on screens and you have no practical way of specifying
    size even if you had meaningful units.
  created: '2013-01-04 19:51:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Quit dumping on the dumpling, his question is entirely legitimate given what
    he wants to be able to do, and digital technology should enable what people want
    to do, not <em>force</em> them to operate by trial and error in an arcane system
    of type sizing inherited from long-obsolete technologies involving little pieces
    of metal.\r\n\r\nDumpling, there are a couple of different aspects to the issues
    you are facing. First, let me explain why point sizing of type is meaningless
    for your purposes. What is scaled when type is specified by point size is the
    'body' of the type, which corresponds to the height of the face of the piece of
    metal in foundry type. Of course, in digital type, this body is invisible, even
    to the person setting the type. What you have noted is that the visual size of
    individual typefaces <em>relative to the body height</em> varies. There are sometimes
    good technical reasons for this, which is why this somewhat arcane scaling system
    remains useful. For instance, if a type involves more than one writing system
    with different use of vertical space, or if it includes some particularly tall
    characters, it may make sense to 'cast the type small on the body' -- to use the
    old foundry terminology. Another reason why digital type might be visibly smaller
    than the nominal type size is inherited scaling, i.e. it was cast small in the
    original metal versions of the design, and subsequent technologies have inherited
    this scaling (see, for instance, Monotype Perpetua).\r\n\r\nNow, what you need
    for your purposes is a way to scale type relative to visual features rather than
    invisible body. And there's no good reason why software shouldn't be able to provide
    you with this functionality. After all, the information you need is present in
    the font, either in explicit form (e.g. declared cap height or x-height) or in
    a manner derivable from character identity and outline. I'm guessing that there
    is some software out there that provides such an option, but I don't know which.
    The first thing you should do is dig around in Corel's preferences to see if there
    is some kind of option to scale type by e.g. cap height.\r\n\r\nThe linespacing
    issue you mention is related, but a bit different as it is particular to digital
    type. Fonts have sets of vertical metrics data that software uses to determine
    default linespacing <em>when software is not using explicit leading values set
    by the user.</em> Since these vertical metrics data are font-specific, different
    types will have different default linespacing at the same nominal size. Again,
    there are good technical reasons for this. The good news is that almost all software
    -- even MS Word! -- provides means for the user to specify linespacing as an absolute
    value (usually in point size) for selected text. So you should be able to easily
    resolve this aspect of your problem."
  created: '2013-01-04 20:35:03'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> How (other than trial and error) am I to select proper \"point\" size \r\n>
    in order to get the characters to be a certain height and/or width? \r\n\r\nTrial
    and error is part of the design process. You set type, judge how it looks, and
    make adjustments until its right.\r\n\r\nBut if you need a line of type to be
    an exact width, just make the text box that width (or draw a line or a box onscreen
    that is that width) and then adjust the type size until it matches that width.
    No need for a ruler; every drawing program will display the width of objects.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want type to be an exact height \u2014 for example if you need your caps to
    be exactly 1\" tall for some reason \u2014\_you can use a similar method of matching
    the height to a line or box of that height, or you can draw guidelines that are
    that far apart.\r\n\r\nTip: With many applications you can adjust type size up
    or down quickly with your arrow keys. Just select the type and then press the
    arrow. Can be very handy when trying to match a width. See your application's
    instructions for details. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-04 20:35:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Keep in mind that type sizes (be it points or otherwise) are not stating
    the size of the glyph itself, but rather the glyph's bounding box, so it's never
    a direct correlation.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-04 20:57:37'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  And there's no good reason why software shouldn't \r\n> be able to provide
    you with this functionality\r\n\r\nI think newer versions of InDesign can set
    a word or phrase to a given width (although I've never used that feature), and
    perhaps other page layout or drawing programs do too.\r\n\r\nBut while people
    commonly need to set a *column* to a certain width, setting a particular word
    or phrase to an exact height or width \u2014 such as \"I need this word to be
    exactly 2.73\" wide\" \u2014 is not something that most people need to do every
    day, and when needed it can be accomplished fairly easily by making a text box
    that wide and adjusting point size until the width matches. I'm not sure it's
    a feature that many users are asking for.\r\n\r\nAnd actually I think the point
    system, while old, works pretty well once you learn it. Subdividing an inch in
    72 tiny increments is useful because the difference between, say, 7' and 8' type
    is indeed very tiny.  And applications have been displaying type size in points
    for as long as I can remember. I know it can be confusing to newcomers, but what
    alternatives are there for accurately displaying type size?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dumpling
    body: "<blockquote>I know it can be confusing to newcomers, but what alternatives
      are there for accurately displaying type size?</blockquote>\r\nWhat's wrong
      with millimeters, or tenths of millimeters?\r\nEven we Americans divide our
      inch into thousandths for precise work."
    created: '2013-01-04 23:40:31'
  created: '2013-01-04 21:11:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "In CorelDraw you can set how you specify  text size by going to Tools >options
    (Control-J) >text. In the dialog box you can then set the default units to inches,
    millimeters, picas, points, ciceros, didots, or Q. I don\u2019t know what Q is
    but 24 points is  but 24 points is 33.867 Q.\r\n\r\nCharacter formatting tools
    are at Text > Character formatting and Text > Paragraph formatting. Adjustments
    to leading and paragraph spacing, are measured by percent of character height,
    points or percent of point size. Adjustments to tracking (character spacing in
    Corel) and word spacing are by percent. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-04 22:05:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Q is the system that makes the most sense. It's used in Japan, and
    the base unit is 1/4 of a millimeter.\r\n\r\nAs for what can practically be done,
    it's not actually hopeless - here's an idea: every font should have two additional
    numbers embedded: the ratio of cap height to EM, and the ratio of x-height to
    Em; this would allow a quick automatic scaling when the user chooses to set the
    size based on one of those two measures (which however would need to be supported
    in the software of course). Alternatively, good layout software could actually
    have the ability to automatically figure out what those numbers are by looking
    at the font, more than 99% of the time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-04 22:21:20'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "If there is only one line of text, then leading is a meaningless concept.\r\n\r\nI
    have done some shopping online for rubber stamps, specifically date stamps. Character
    size is expressed in the same units of measure you use for tasks unrelated to
    typography.\r\n\r\nI have designed calendars. I have posted one of them on the
    \"Typography / composition\" board, under the title \"Page-per-week calendar design\".\r\n*
    For the month numbers at the top of the page, as well as the week numbers at the
    bottom of the page, I wanted the characters to be of such a size as to just barely
    fit within certain margins. Only by trial and error could I do this.\r\n* At least
    in the cells for Monday through Friday, I wanted the date numerals to be centered
    vertically. Again, trial and error.\r\n* I wanted the numerals at the bottom to
    be a certain exact distance from the edge of the page. Same deal.\r\n\r\nThe way
    I see it is, anything that isn't ink should not be included in the measurement."
  created: '2013-01-04 23:35:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@dumpling, but then what would you measure? Which character would you use?
    Which accent marks? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-04 23:39:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And actually I think the point system, while old, works pretty well once
    you learn it. Subdividing an inch in 72 tiny increments is useful because the
    difference between, say, 7' and 8' type is indeed very tiny. And applications
    have been displaying type size in points for as long as I can remember. I know
    it can be confusing to newcomers, but what alternatives are there for accurately
    displaying type size?</em>\r\n\r\nThe issue raised by 'Dumpling' is not the unit
    system or how it relates to other unit systems such as inches, but what it relates
    to in the typeface, i.e. what is being measured/scaled. The fact that the body
    (em) that the nominal point size relates to is <em>invisible</em> and has no fixed
    relationship to any of the visible features of a typeface design means that you
    can't actually rely on it to specify the size of any visible feature. That makes
    it non-useful for all sorts of purposes. Further, as as typography becomes more
    and more internationalised, the limitations of such a system become more and more
    evident. It is one thing for two Latin types to be slightly different visual size
    at the same nominal size, but another for e.g. the Latin component of an Arabic
    font to need to be set at 22pt to be of equivalent size to a typical 12pt Latin
    font. This messes with user expectations of 'normal text size', not to mention
    the recurring issue of legal requirements for accessibility specified in point
    size.\r\n\r\nHrant, the information required to comparatively scale types by cap
    height or x-height already exists in fonts, so adding explicit information expressed
    as a ratio seems redundant. Software that would need to be updated to make use
    of such information could just as easily be updated to use the existing data.
    But the problem with both approaches is that it is terribly Latin-centric (or
    Euro-centric if you prefer, since the same concepts apply to Greek, Cyrillic and
    Armenian, although not always compatibly).\r\n\r\nWhat I have in mind is a more
    radical but global solution, one that could result in all fonts being relatively
    scaleable to harmonise optically. This would require two things: a standard reference
    font in which the relationship of outlines to em height would constitute the value
    1 of a Standard Visual Size; and a single new piece of information in fonts that
    would indicate the designer's proposed scaling of that font relative to the standard
    reference font, e.g. 0.87, 1.14 etc.. This isn't intended, of course, to replace
    existing scaling methods, but to enable a new way of visually harmonising types
    of varying on-the-body size independent of writing system."
  created: '2013-01-04 23:44:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Robert, it's actually not trial and error. You just have to measure once,
    and then scale.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the information required to comparatively scale
    types by cap height or x-height already exists in fonts</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOh,
    duh. Reinventing the wheel, sorry.\r\nSo yes, software would simply have to provide
    a way to scale to those values.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What I have in mind is ....</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSo
    you're saying have an apparent-size quotient? Although of course there's more
    to matching up multi-script fonts than that. And who would determine that? Eyes
    vary.\r\n\r\nBTW if memory serves this is actually exactly a problem Jorge de
    Buen has been working on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-04 23:50:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And who would determine that?</em>\r\n\r\nThe type designer. The whole
    point is, as you say, that eyes -- and preferences -- vary, so there is never
    going to be a single, optimal solution. What I am suggesting is a means of establishing
    a base reference to overcome the most obvious problems of the current system;
    I fully expect that typographers would want to refine the results according to
    their own eyes and tastes, but the point is that they already have plenty of means
    by which to do that. What is lacking is a means to automate harmonious visual
    scaling according to the Pretty Darn Good criterion. I think the best way to do
    that is to put it in the hands of the same people on whom we rely to make all
    sorts of other judicial decisions about aspects of how fonts work: the type designers.
    What they need, though, is a standard reference against which to make those judicial
    decisions."
  created: '2013-01-05 00:15:29'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "<blockquote>Why does software have me select font size in \"points\"?\r\n\r\nHow
    (other than trial and error) am I to select proper \"point\" size in order to
    get the characters to be a certain height and/or width? Seriously.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAs
    noted, you're really asking two separate questions here.  The point size doesn't
    directly correlate to the visible size of the characters.  What it measures is
    the height of the em-square, the (imaginary) type body.  Whether you measured
    it in points, millimetres or pixels, you would have the same problem (viz requiring
    trial and error).\r\n\r\nThe great strength of measuring by point size (or em
    height) is that it doesn't change when the typeface does.  This is useful when
    you may potentially be combining different fonts within a single line at a fixed
    point size.  If you measure line height by a calculation based on the font glyphs
    themselves, things may not line up properly.  Whereas with a em-based line height,
    any number of 12-point fonts on a single line of type should all occupy the same
    vertical space.\r\n\r\nThe actual units are points because, I suppose, that's
    what people are used to.  Since both screen and printer resolutions are normally
    measured in dots per inch, it's actually a more straightforward conversion than
    many other units would provide.\r\n\r\nOn-screen, for instance: At 72dpi 1 point
    == 1 pixel.  At 96dpi, 1 point == 1.33333 pixels.  Et cetera.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 00:57:21'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "In CorelDraw, can you measure in\"pixels\"? If so, at what zoom size is one
    pixel equal to one pixel? (\"At 100%\" is <em>not</em> a good answer, unless CorelDraw
    takes your screen resolution in account. And if it does, then it's still not an
    absolute measurement because your 100-pixel tall text would be larger or smaller
    than my 100-pixel tall text. Including the pixel in a list of \"real world measurement
    units\" is not simply an error, it's stupid. (And Thank You Adobe for doing so!)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    actual units are points because, I suppose, that's what people are used to. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nUnless
    those people are not used to real world typography. It's no more \"weird\" than
    a map that displays distances between cities in kilometers, rather then in inches
    or millimeters. It's the \"natural\" way to express text size because it has been
    like that for several centuries.\r\nIn InDesign you can enter font height in millimeters
    as well (and even in centimeters or in inches), but the system converts them to
    \"points\" on entry.\r\n\r\nBut ... as several others point out above, there is
    no such thing as \"the\" font height. That is a notion that's usually even more
    bewildering for amateurs than the concept of \"points\"."
  created: '2013-01-05 01:17:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Mostly, people are more concerned about how many lines fill the inch, rather
    than how big the letters are, which is why you can't select x-height or cap height
    from the size menu. It's an interesting feature to add, and presumably today's
    font formats do make the needed information available.
  created: '2013-01-05 03:30:45'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "@ Hrant\r\n\r\n<em>[1/72 is] about the smallest increment that can be seen
    with the naked eye.</em>\r\n<em>Shirly you can't be serious.</em>\r\n\r\nI am
    serious. The printer's point in very precise without being needlessly precise.
    And don't call me Shirley. "
  created: '2013-01-05 04:09:09'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: 'So, let''s see if I got this right: Font size, as expressed in points, is
    strictly <em>a measure of how far down the page your cursor goes when you hit
    the return key.</em> It has nothing to do with the size of the characters on the
    page, or indeed anything about the characters themselves, nor how they interact
    within a single line; all it is is <em>seventy-two times the number of inches
    the cursor goes down the page when you press return.</em> What this has to do
    with the font itself is beyond me.'
  created: '2013-01-05 04:32:10'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: See this? This is what I made, and I would love to automate creation of these
    using software called FPDF. And the font-sizing system I am forced to work with
    has all the splendid logic of women's clothing sizes.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2013W07_3421.png]
  created: '2013-01-05 04:47:37'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "who said Corel measures in pixels, Theunis ?  \r\n\r\nThe fastest sure way
    in Corel or Illustrator to get type to be exactly the visible cap height you want
    is to set guidelines  to the height you want and then manually fit your text to
    then. Take a note of the nominal height to set any subsequent text to that height.
    Or, convert the text to curves (outlines) and adjust the size.\r\n\r\nThe unit
    of measurement you choose makes no difference. It's just different numbers for
    the same thing."
  created: '2013-01-05 04:51:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@dumpling:\r\n<cite>Font size, as expressed in points, is strictly a measure
    of how far down the page your cursor goes when you hit the return key.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes!\r\n\r\n<cite>What
    this has to do with the font itself is beyond me.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it describes
    how tall each of the little pieces of lead-antimony alloy in the font are (or
    how <em>long</em>, since they're all 0.918\" tall)... oh, wait, you're talking
    about those newfangled TrueType fonts!"
  created: '2013-01-05 04:58:48'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It does really seem like design software ought to let you specify font sizes
    by cap height or lowercase height or whatever. The necessary data is already in
    the fonts, even the old PostScript Type 1 variety. It's just software running
    on computers, after all.
  created: '2013-01-05 05:05:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Font size, as expressed in points, is strictly a measure of how far down
    the page your cursor goes when you hit the return key.</em>\r\n\r\nNo. The distance
    that your cursor moves down the page when you hit return will only be equivalent
    to font size expressed in points if the text is 'set solid', i.e. if there is
    no additional interline distance. Otherwise, the cursor will either move the point
    size plus some explicit leading value, if that is the typesetting method being
    used (default in e.g. InDesign), or will move a distance equivalent to the sum
    of vertical metrics in the font OS/2 table (Windows) or hhea (Mac) table (default
    in e.g. WordPad), or will move some multiple of the sum of those vertical metrics
    (default in MS Word).\r\n\r\nLet me try to explain point sizing for vector form
    digital types as succinctly as possible:\r\n\r\nThe vector outlines defining the
    shapes of letters, numbers, punctuation etc. in a font are plotted on a unit grid.
    The fineness of this grid is defined in terms of 'units per em', in which an 'em'
    is a square that, when scaled, will be equivalent to the nominal point size of
    text. The em height is directly analogous to what was known as the body height
    in metal type. So, for example, the vector outlines of a letter might be plotted
    on a grid of 2048 units per em (pretty common for TrueType fonts). When you are
    setting text, it is this em that is scaled to the nominal point size. Think of
    it this way: the em grid is like a canvas on which the letter is painted, and
    when you scale the text what you are scaling is the canvas, not the letter directly."
  created: '2013-01-05 05:16:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: .
  created: '2013-01-05 05:47:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>The printer's point in very precise without being needlessly
    precise.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry I misunderstood you, Victoria. I guess
    you're simply saying that it's a good scale. I can dig that, but would ask: how
    often do people end up specifying fractional points? Because picky typographers
    will often specify something like 10.5 point. And when they <em>don't</em> specify
    fractional points, how often is that an unfortunate result of a \"whatever, dude\"?\r\n\r\nFor
    example if 1/2 point sizes are commonly specified (I mean by designers who think
    readers are affected by the difference) but anything finer isn't, then I would
    say the scale should be twice as fine.\r\n\r\nAnd one thing's for sure, the point
    must be a pain in metric-system-using countries, which is most of them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 05:51:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Except that''s not as correct as the descriptions above. '
  created: '2013-01-05 06:00:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah James, that thing is highly misleading in at least two ways, sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 06:02:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Good point, Mark.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nWhy points? It\u2019s all about integers:\r\n\r\nPicas
    and points are nicely scaled to typographical distances \u2014 which is the point
    made earlier about kilometers or miles being the right scale for considering geographical
    distance.\r\n\r\nPicas: if you have to make a table 4\xBD\u2033 wide with 6 columns
    of varying width? That\u2019s 26 picas, which is an easy number to solve this
    problem.\r\n\r\nPoints: if you have to decide between different sizes of type
    for a particular job, choosing between 8 pt and 9 pt is more manageable than comparing
    cap heights in inches or millimetres."
  created: '2013-01-05 06:05:56'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "[diagram deleted]\r\nSince I apparently screwed up the diagram I've deleted
    it. Maybe someone can post a better one."
  created: '2013-01-05 06:37:35'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: "Hrant: <em>And one thing's for sure, the point must be a pain in metric-system-using
    countries, which is most of them.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\n\r\nPancho G\xE1lvez,
    in his nice book <em>Educaci\xF3n tipogr\xE1fica</em>, suggests, IIRC, that one
    could turn to points/picas for all the measurements on the page. To me that would
    be impossible.\r\n\r\nJust before the worldwide onslaught of DTP software from
    US companies made it irrelevant, there had been in Europe a proposition of an
    adjusted Didot point measuring 0.375 mm (instead of the traditional 0.3759), which
    would make 8 pt = 3 mm, fitting metric pages more easily. I have a nice Faber-Castell
    typometer using that revised Didot point, and when I used to do this sort of work
    more often I would reset QuarkXPress's Didot point to this value.\r\n\r\nIn any
    case, regarding the thread's subject, we're still talking about the box, not what's
    inside it. As to this, it's a bit more complex than the original question implies.
    Even if you mean a plain UC, there may be issues such as hanging J's, Q's tails,
    etc. And, to be fussy, what about the overshoots."
  created: '2013-01-05 09:02:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Points are not meaningless if they are used within one type family, outside
    those parameters they can often become a stumbling block.\r\n\r\nIn your example,
    it is true that a measurement system that reflects those of the rest of the grid
    might be more useful. However, setting a calendar brings a series of problems
    that you do not frequently face in other jobs.\r\n\r\nFor improvements, I would
    consider kerning and indents and baseline shifts on your dashes.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2013-01-05 11:20:26'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@dumpling\r\n\r\nReally? All this fuss because you can\u2019t create calendar
    pages as easily as you would like? \r\n\r\nAs you may have discerned from the
    discussion above, there are very good reasons why things are done the way they
    are done, and not the way you would like to see them done to suit <em>your</em>
    particular needs\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-05 13:57:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Rodolfo! Nice to see you back.\r\n\r\nNick, come on. When you're designing
    display matter and you want the caps (or less often the lc x-height) to be a certain
    size it takes some extra work that should be unnecessary (considering the data
    is there in the font). Also, if you want a block of text to harmonize with the
    rest of a <em>metric-system</em> layout, the point is non-ideal; just like serious
    fields like science don't use the Imperial System any more, we should switch too
    (to Q).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 15:14:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>No. The distance that your cursor moves down the page
    when you hit return will only be equivalent to font size expressed in points if
    the text is 'set solid', i.e. if there is no additional interline distance. </cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is true, but it is also somewhat irrelevant, since his statement was simply a
    complaint that point size has no fixed ratio to x-height or cap height and so
    on.\r\n\r\nAlso, there is another exception, at least in some word processors.
    Sometimes, two fonts will have different baselines, and mixing them on the same
    line at the same point size will result in the line taking up additional space
    corresponding to the difference in baselines."
  created: '2013-01-05 15:32:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the physical page (the thing the stuff ends up on, so has to work with)
    will be either inch-based or meter-based, so...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 15:57:50'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/H_01-01_3953.png]\r\n\r\n<cite>The unit
    of measurement you choose makes no</cite> [material]<cite> difference. It's just
    different numbers for the same thing.</cite>\r\n\r\nI like to measure with barley
    corns whenever the opportunity arises.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 16:09:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "So, I can deal with decimals.\r\n\r\nOr rather, my computer can.\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\nMy
    point in saying that the kind of unit used is irrelevant is that I understand
    the original question to be about how to determine the dimensions of the visible
    portion of type and the space above and below. \r\n\r\nUltimately, as designers,
    why care? If it looks right to your eye, then it is right. We ain't tool and die
    makers when we make calendars. None of this matters until you have to replicate
    a layout or build something with real materials, in which case all the data you
    need is already there. You can round your dimensions off to fit an existing standard
    or you if feel that that makes life easier, or you can live with something cumbersome
    like 19.976 barley corns, because you don't need to remember it. (Or even know
    it.) Your computer does that for you. \r\n\r\nWhile it is possible to obtain that
    data from the font itself this is already done to a certain extent.  llustrator
    and CorelDraw both recognize the base line. \r\n\r\nI design signs for a living
    and am, always having to set sigle lines of type to specific cap heights and place
    them  in precise locations on sign faces  - using the methods described above.
    When spec'ing for sign shops and design consultants, I'll define the cap height
    and, if I am concerned they might have limited skills in the field, I provide
    the size in points that will produce the size of text I want. I.e, to get a cap-height
    of 25mm, and in brackets, I specify 106 points* (for ClearviewADA).\r\n\r\n* 0.149
    points, or 0.053 mm or 0.0021 inches too large, which is an acceptable magin or
    error \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2013-01-05 18:28:28'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "It goes like this:\r\n\r\nI'm trying to automate the process of generating
    the calendars. The key word here is \"automate\".\r\n\r\nMy goal (it remains to
    be seen if I will reach it) is to set up an online service to generate just this
    sort of calendar on the fly. I intend to use software called FPDF for this. (Maybe
    this is the wrong software. I don't know. But I'm not going to spend hundreds
    of $$$ for something that will turn out unusable anyway.)\r\n\r\nNow. I'm in America.
    We do not use A4 paper here. I originally designed my calendars for A4 paper,
    and I found out the hard way that nobody around here has it. Another thing I found
    out is that dealing with available paper margins is a pain, and a rather expensive
    pain if you go to get your calendars printed and get them all off-center because
    you went closer to the margin than their machines are set up to support.\r\n\r\nSo.
    I am planning on setting up a service where the user specifies what paper size
    she has available, and how close to the edge of the page it will print. I will
    probably have a test page or two so she can see how her printer deals with margins.
    She will of course also specify what time period she wants the calendar for, which
    (if any) region's holidays she wants on it, etc. Maybe there will be an option
    for her to choose the typeface. (I like DIN, but maybe she doesn't. Any ideas,
    folks?*) And as the calendar will be generated <em>without human eyes to look
    it over,</em> I need a way to get character size and position from point size
    and position.\r\n\r\n\r\n* I cannot use typefaces with weird licensing requirements.
    I don't want the user of my site to have to specify how many copies of the calendar
    will be printed, whether their use is commercial or non-commercial, etc. (What
    if the calendars are being used by a business for the business's internal use?
    Is that commercial or non-commercial?) I'm not a lawyer and I can't afford a lawyer.
    So I must use fonts without strings attached.\r\nIn an ideal world (ideal for
    me, at least), the typeface designer would be paid a fair, flat fee <em>for their
    labor,</em> and then the typeface would be released into the public domain. But
    this is not an ideal world."
  created: '2013-01-05 18:43:38'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Why not just offer a selection of several fonts, and then predetermine (by
    manual testing) what size works best with each of those fonts?
  created: '2013-01-05 19:35:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>In an ideal world (ideal for me, at least), the typeface designer would
    be paid a fair, flat fee for their labor\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nAh-ha, Dumpling is
    a communist!\r\n\r\n@Hrant: <em>\u2026if you want a block of text to harmonize
    with the rest of a metric-system layout, the point is non-ideal\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI
    always set the page size units to be in picas, whether metric or imperial.\r\nThen
    the margins and gutters come out to be manageable integers.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Layout_5286.png]\r\nHere
    is a Letter-size layout I did with horizontal metrics in picas of:\r\n3 + 14 +
    1\xBD + 14 + 1\xBD + 14 + 3 = 51\r\n\r\nA comparable layout for A4, in centimeters
    would be:\r\n1 + 6 + 0.5 + 6 + 0.5 + 6 + 1 = 21\r\n\r\nNot bad, but needs a bit
    more width in the margins and gutters, I would say.\r\n\r\nThe body type is 9/12
    and the headline 24/30 in points.\r\nThat\u2019s 3 mm on 4 mm (2 on 4 if one goes
    by cap height), and 8 mm on 10 mm.\r\nNot bad, but the dif\uFB01culty arise for
    the \u201Cnext\u201D body sizes.\r\nIf I had decided that the leading should be
    less, it\u2019s easy to take it down a notch (or half) in points\u20149/11 (or
    9/11\xBD)\u2014but that would be 3 on 3.8 (or 3 on 3.9), which makes \uFB01guring
    out vertical metrics of the page more complicated.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I am wrong on
    this; I\u2019d be interested to hear from designers who work in metric how they
    handle similar layouts\u2014I might even theorize that the units used have some
    in\uFB02uence on cultural style."
  created: '2013-01-05 20:25:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I always define my page layout using pica/point measurements, because I work
    outwards from the text rather than inward from the page dimension. If the paper
    size is metric, resulting in fractional points, I absorb these in the inside margin
    so that my text block and outer margins are integer measurements.
  created: '2013-01-05 20:43:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: 'I too find that picas work well for page layout. '
  created: '2013-01-05 21:04:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Robert, it sounds like -if you want to do this right- you need to write a
    plug-in for InDesign that accesses a font's metrics information.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>In
    an ideal world (ideal for me, at least), the typeface designer would be paid a
    fair, flat fee for their labor, and then the typeface would be released into the
    public domain.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat does happen sometimes (it's happened to
    me, with Arasan) and it's called commissioning a custom design! But it's not cheap
    (because it shouldn't be).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I work outwards from the text</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhen
    you have freedom of paper size (like I had when I made my letterpress business
    cards) that's a wonderful thing. But more often the paper size is pre-determined,
    and you can't just ignore that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-05 23:28:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@russellm:\r\n<cite>I like to measure with barley corns whenever the opportunity
    arises.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, as there are two (Selectric Composer or laser printer)
    picas (and, hence, 24 points) in a barleycorn, that isn't <em>too</em> confusing."
  created: '2013-01-06 00:04:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>But more often the paper size is pre-determined, and you can't
    just ignore that.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course you can't ignore the paper dimensions.
    But you can start from those dimensions and work inwards, as typified by modernist
    grid systems, or you can start at the level of letters and words and work outwards.
    Practically, there's always some back-and-forth, but as first principles they
    embody different design philosophies. If the first question I am asking is 'What
    size should the text be in order to be comfortably read in X typeface?', this
    implies something quite different from first asking 'How should I best subdivide
    this A4 sheet for the purposes of this document?'. Both are important questions
    that need to be asked, but the order in which you ask them is also important."
  created: '2013-01-06 00:23:04'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "@Robert -- \r\n<cite>* I cannot use typefaces with weird licensing requirements.
    I don't want the user of my site to have to specify how many copies of the calendar
    will be printed, whether their use is commercial or non-commercial, etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nSuch
    comments tell me there are a lot of things besides the point system you don't
    understand. Personally I think you are setting yourself up for an expensive FAIL
    because of all the things you don't know. \r\n\r\nForget lawyers; hire an experienced
    production artist, even as a consultant -- someone with about five years or more
    of experience. If nothing else you will learn a lot from them."
  created: '2013-01-06 03:50:27'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "Well, I suppose there's always:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/digit-row_3945.png]"
  created: '2013-01-06 04:46:16'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "As it turns out, I <em>am</em> able to use the baseline as a reference point,
    which makes things much easier. Now all I have to do it find the conversion factor
    between points and millimeters. (More trial and error, I guess.)\r\n\r\nHere is
    a little \"demo\" of what I have so far: [[http://pdf52.comyr.com/phpstuff/pdftest2.php]]\r\n\r\nI
    know it is not nearly finished.\r\n* I have hard-coded start and end months as
    January 2013 and March 2013, respectively. Ultimately, the user will choose the
    months, as well as many other options.\r\n* If all goes according to plan, the
    finished calendar pages will have the same sort of information as in the sample
    page I posted earlier in this thread. (week numbers, sunrise / sunset times, moon
    phase info, local holidays)\r\n\r\nBoy, it is surprisingly simple to come up with
    something that looks like it rivals a commercial product. Well, not quite. The
    (lack of) alignment of weekday abbreviations with date numerals is something I
    need to work on.\r\n\r\nI intend to make this available as a free, public service.
    Any profit will be made by sale of <em>physical, paper</em> calendars, as well
    as possibly commission fees for custom calendars.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-06 07:29:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Now all I have to do it find the conversion factor between points
    and millimeters. (More trial and error, I guess.)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI brought
    this up before: which part of a simple calculation is <em>trial and error</em>?\r\n1
    point = 1/72 inch\r\n1 inch = 25.4 millimeters\r\nSo 1 point is ~0.353 millimeters\r\n\r\nBut,
    yet again: you still can't predict how large parts of letterforms will end up
    in the Em square, because there are ballparks, but no benchmarks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-06 08:19:30'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "I believe the expression is \"apples and oranges\".\r\n\r\nI want to know,
    if I want the characters <em>on the page</em> to be a certain height (think of
    using a wooden ruler to measure characters on a sheet of paper), then how many
    points do I tell the computer to use for the em size<em>it uses internally</em>
    to generate the page?"
  created: '2013-01-06 09:13:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "By my zeroth approximation (aka wild-ass guess), you'll need a number that
    is the app's em divided with the summed fractions of ascender and descender.\r\n\r\nSample
    for a made-up combo of app and font: 1200/(650+150)\r\n\r\nwhere random_app's
    em is random_font's em of 1000 + its leading of 200, the tallest ascender is 650
    dits above the baseline and the deepest descender reaches 150 dits below it.\r\n\r\nBtw,
    'dit' is very likely not an accepted technical term."
  created: '2013-01-06 13:16:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@dumpling:\r\n\r\nAlthough you've probably been bashed enough by the greedy
    money-grubbing type designers around here for these comments, as they involve
    some factual misunderstandings, I feel I need to respond as well, although hopefully
    in a constructive manner.\r\n\r\n<cite>I cannot use typefaces with weird licensing
    requirements. I don't want the user of my site to have to specify how many copies
    of the calendar will be printed, whether their use is commercial or non-commercial,
    etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nAhem. You won't have to worry about that. One of the first
    weird requirements of any license agreement with weird requirements is: if you
    give access to the font to anyone else that gives them the opportunity to lie
    to you, and hence you let them break the agreement because you've been fooled,
    it's your fault. Your obligation under the license agreement is to control access
    to the font so that breaches are impossible.\r\n\r\nAlso, most licensed fonts
    are licensed for use on one computer, by whoever is sitting down at it. If somebody
    else wants to print something with that font, they can buy their own copy.\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    an ideal world (ideal for me, at least), the typeface designer would be paid a
    fair, flat fee for their labor, and then the typeface would be released into the
    public domain.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat's the obvious problem with this?\r\n\r\nWho
    decides which fonts are worth the expense to have commissioned in this fashion?\r\n\r\nThe
    free market has a certain usefulness for which substitutes have not been found.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    want to know, if I want the characters on the page to be a certain height (think
    of using a wooden ruler to measure characters on a sheet of paper), then how many
    points do I tell the computer to use for the em sizeit uses internally to generate
    the page?</cite>\r\n\r\nUsually, the \"point size\" for a font to the computer
    is what it uses on a printed page. It's the size of those letters on the screen
    that is not controllable, as users can set it to be bigger if they have poor eyesight.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    there are 72 points in an inch (in letterpress, a point is slightly smaller, 0.013837
    inch), and 2.54 centimeters in an inch, and, of course, 10 millimeters in a centimeter.\r\n\r\nSo
    a point is 0.3514598 millimeter or 0.3527778 millimeter."
  created: '2013-01-06 15:42:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I hope you were kidding in your opening comment. The money grubbers
    aren't here. And the <em>real</em> money-grubbers aren't even in type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-06 15:46:55'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "BTW, once upon a time, type foundries created special fonts specifically
    for making calendars, and everything lined up perfectly. Perhaps you should consider
    doing the same\u2026or commissioning a competent professional to do so\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-06 16:31:10'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: By the way... you <em>have</em> thought of printing "SydSydSyd" at 100 points
    and measuring that to get some starting numbers?
  children:
  - author:
      name: dumpling
    body: "<blockquote>By the way... you have thought of printing \"SydSydSyd\" at
      100 points and measuring that to get some starting numbers?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWho's
      Syd?\r\n\r\nNo, but I printed \"250pt\" and \"350\" in those respective sizes,
      together with rectangles of known dimensions (10 mm x 50 mm or 10 mm x 100 mm)
      for comparison. I learned:\r\n* On the printer I used, the rectangles came out
      a bit too small (about 93 mm for 100 mm). I think it had to do with the page
      margins I chose and automatic page scaling.\r\n* The vertical measurements were
      ever so slightly (by a fraction of a percent) inconsistent with the horizontal
      measurements.\r\n* The overshoots (is an \"undershoot\" still called an overshoot?)
      were indeed there. Each over/undershoot is on the order of 1/140 (darn near
      impossible to measure accurately with the tools at hand) of the total character
      height.\r\n\r\nThe thing with overshoots is, once you see them, it's kind of
      hard not to see them, which defeats their entire purpose. I have seen signs
      with very large lettering on which the overshoots were laughably obvious. You
      probably have seen such signs too. Perhaps along with \"Bold\" and \"Italic\"
      options for a font, there should be a \"No Overshoots\" option!"
    created: '2013-01-09 21:31:58'
  created: '2013-01-06 16:47:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>John, I hope you were kidding in your opening comment.</cite>\r\nYes,
    despite the lack of a smiley, which I felt was unnecessary, as I felt I was being
    obvious."
  created: '2013-01-06 18:50:25'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: '@ Hrant: I use fractional point sizes all the time, but not because I think
    readers can see the difference. On the contrary, I often use them precisely because
    most readers can''t see the difference, e.g., in a situation where I''ve designed
    a layout to fit a block of text at 12 pt, and some hotshot editor adds another
    sentence so it doesn''t fit anymore. Presto, 11.5-pt type to the rescue. '
  created: '2013-01-06 19:04:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@dumpling  I'm still a bit confused as to your dilema. I think you are struggling
    with two issues.\r\n\r\n1) Converting points to a unit of measurement you'd prefer.
    Hrant gave you the forumla for that. That's simple math, no big deal.\r\n\r\n2)
    Measuring the height of the printed glyph. This is the part you can't readily
    do based on the 'type size', since the point size of type refers to the bounding
    box that all the glyphs have to fit in. \r\n\r\nThere's no 'fix' for within the
    font file. This simply because most fonts will have glyphs of wildly varying heights.
    A simple example being a 'g' vs. 'Q'. But then you also need to account for punctuations,
    special characters, accent marks, swashes, ligatures, etc.\r\n\r\nProgramtically,
    you might be able to fix this by rendering the type and then some how evaluating
    the generated pixels. "
  created: '2013-01-06 19:21:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I often use them precisely because most readers can't see the
    difference</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut you made that text block fit for the benefit
    of the reader, right? Even if we might often be talking about looking, not reading.
    Note BTW that I said that readers are <em>affected</em>, not that they consciously
    notice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-06 19:22:45'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<em>you made that text block fit for the benefit of the reader, right?</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    sort of right, assuming the reader benefits from my also having room for a headline,
    a subhead, a couple of images, and maybe a logo and phone number ;-)"
  created: '2013-01-06 19:50:16'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: I'm a bit puzzled also as to where exactly the problem is. If the idea is
    writing some PHP to generate calendars, presumably it's not as simple as having
    the program look at the font's metrics to get the cap height and ascender height
    relative to baseline and then doing the arithmetic to fit this to the space available.
    What else needs to be done? Is it the widths that are the problem?
  created: '2013-01-07 02:19:27'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: I learned from Eduardo Danilo to start by defining a paragraph font style
    and then to work a grid from the leading measurement.
  created: '2013-01-09 06:45:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I have seen signs with very large lettering on which the overshoots
    were laughably obvious.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's because a font's overshoot
    depends on the intended usage size range (or to be picky, the intended subtended
    angle) and using a font at a size outside that range is, well, blasphemous.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-09 21:43:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "If overshoots are the problem, then use a \u201Csquare\u201C typeface\u2014like
    this\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/nicksfonts/warp-three-nf/\r\n\r\n:\xDE"
  created: '2013-01-09 22:39:26'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Syd = Sunday <em>sans</em> u, n and a. Also the letters I guessed as most
    likely to give a good measure for caps, descender and ascender.
  created: '2013-01-09 23:22:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That would be Hhp.  :-)\r\nActually I'm not kidding - I once saw a presentation
    by Matthew Carter where he showed that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-09 23:39:07'
date: '2013-01-04 18:25:26'
node_type: forum
title: '"Points" are meaningless.'

---
