---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: It has recently come up on a few occasions as to where the line between posting
  for the greater good of the community and self promotion exists. A topic worthy
  of discussion. To the best of my knowledge Typophile has no formal policy regarding
  this but it is something I am actively looking into. Your thoughts, opinions, and
  ideas are welcome.
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "When someone asks for a font recommendation, I\u2019ll often suggest one
    of my own, along with one or two others in a similar genre. But it does take a
    lot more time to do the research for that, and to satisfy myself that those other
    fonts with which I\u2019m less familiar would do the job. Of course, I could recommend
    the old faithfuls, and sometimes do (e.g. Avant Garde, recently), but would prefer
    to keep it fresh.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t start threads about my work, unless in the
    Release forum.\r\n\r\nI will often illustrate topics on subjects such as small
    caps or \uFB01gure styles with my own types. Again, I\u2019m familiar with them
    and the line of thinking that went into them, and have them on hand.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    what happened to the Featured Font?"
  created: '2013-01-14 21:53:40'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>it is something I am actively looking into.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo
    what end? The greater good of the community depends on the type industry and related
    industries thriving; the promotion of those people (by themselves or others) is
    key to that. I think there are cases where that promotion can be detrimental to
    a given thread or discussion but in general contributors here are intelligent
    and able to cope with the occasional over zealous self-promoter and call shenanigans
    when necessary."
  created: '2013-01-14 22:22:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Agreed with Karl. And we have much bigger fish to fry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-14 22:33:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Karl Stange: I agree with your statement as well. It is just something that
    has been brought to my attention by a few members. Threads laden with self-published
    advertisements would be unfortunate (but unlikely given our population). As it
    stands, I don\u2019t perceive a significant problem. \r\n\r\n@hrant: Feel free
    to send me a list of fish to fry. I am composing one as we speak. Your input is
    welcome.\r\n\r\nOf course we need to be aware of censorship and over-moderating,
    but I find it best to be aware of a situation and prevent things from getting
    out of hand as opposed to taking time after the fact to clean up a mess.\r\n\r\nThis
    is merely a topic of conversation. Not a declaration of policy. "
  created: '2013-01-14 23:30:00'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Agreed with Karl. And we have much bigger fish to fry.\r\n\r\nhhp</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSuch
    as finding responsible moderators to nuke the spammers!\r\n\r\nn.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-14 23:40:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I, amongst others, spend time on a daily basis doing this. When you find
    spam, please email me the URL of the spammers profile and subject it \u201CTypophile
    spam.\u201D\r\n\r\ntypographer@gmail.com"
  created: '2013-01-14 23:46:07'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: If someone is recommending his or her own typeface, this should be clearly
    stated in the post. Most people do this already.
  created: '2013-01-15 01:07:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I, amongst others, spend time on a daily basis doing
    this. When you find spam, please email me the URL of the spammers profile and
    subject it \u201CTypophile spam.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHunting down spam is
    the number one priority of a moderator ...it's not up to the rank & file to report
    spam. We shouldn't have to ...like over in the Blogs Forum where it's been there
    for days ;)\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-01-15 01:45:47'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Back on topic, I like when posts have self promotion. It's great to see a
    confident type designer show off their stuff.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-01-15 01:49:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, off the top of my head:\r\n- Block spammers, instead of just squashing
    them.\r\n- Ghettoize the ID section. Too many bottom-feeders* with zero real interest
    in type, making us look cheap and shallow. If you look carefully you'll notice
    there's near-zero interaction between most people who ask for and ID type, and
    most people who actually talk about type. And the only reason not to nuke the
    ID section outright is that the parasites would simply infect the other sections.\r\n\r\n*
    http://typophile.com/node/99624\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-15 01:58:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "hrant, blocking spanners is hard, might be harder than you think. I was a
    moderator on another forum. Things got so bad there the hackers used the \"moderator\"
    feature as a way to send even more spam.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nChris, I don't think
    you can have a successful policy. For example, I'd agree with Nick, he does, from
    time to time, promote his own products, but it is as much a service as anything
    else. Yet how could anyone write -- and moderate --  a policy that allowed this
    while \"discouraging\" the prolific promoters?\r\n\r\nWhy I'm a monarchist at
    heart.  The answer then is \"because WE say so.\""
  created: '2013-01-15 02:06:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Monarchies worked quite well far longer than this precipitously failing Democracy
    junk, a failure that's no surprise since it's an inhuman system.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-15 02:14:47'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I had a realization the other day. The most effective way to keep "SORRY I
    DUNNO IF THIS IS THE RIGHT FORUM BUT WHAT IS THIS FONT PLEASE PLEASE TELL ME QUICK"
    from defecating all over the landscape would be to move the Type ID board to the
    <strong>top.</strong> Clearly the masses walk into the first door they see. Maybe
    rename it to something like "Font Questions (ID)".
  created: '2013-01-15 06:15:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/99740\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 19:35:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hell\u2026\r\n\r\nIf someone ASKS for a recommendation, I am going to pimp
    my fonts\u2014and I would expect anyone else who makes his or her living selling
    the little bastards to do the same. Duh. Or is that \u201CDoh!\u201D? What planet
    do you people live on?"
  created: '2013-01-17 00:54:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'One could email interested parties off list. '
  created: '2013-01-17 12:30:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "At this point it\u2019s clear that members have different ideas of what constitutes
    self promotion. By my definition, I don\u2019t consider recommending a font you
    designed to be self promotion, unless of course that\u2019s all you do as a member.
    Another instance could be someone flagrantly posting examples of their work which
    don\u2019t really bear any relevance to a thread, treating Typophile as a portfolio/job
    board of sorts to drum up business, without actually participating in the dialogue.
    This can easily be discerned by looking at a members history. The same way you
    can see if all someone uses Typophile for is an ID board and homework help. Obviously
    this is a scale, and not a black and white. You all raise good points. Thanks
    for your input.\r\n\r\n(now I have about 300 bot posts to delete)"
  created: '2013-01-17 16:24:00'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> ...without actually participating in the dialogue\r\n\r\nI think that's
    the key phrase. Someone who's only interested in posting spam or self-promotion
    typically doesn't get involved in discussions. But if a member who participates
    in discussions wants to do a bit of on-topic self-promotion, that seems fine to
    me."
  created: '2013-01-17 17:01:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, that <em>combined</em> with \"posting examples of their work which
    don\u2019t really bear any relevance to a thread\" is the only scenario that would
    tip the scales for me in terms of wanting to see a member censured.\r\n\r\nAnd
    Chris: thank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-17 17:19:06'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Can't say I've ever seen anyone posting their own fonts not bearing any relevance
    to the thread. It would be nigh on pointless to do so, and even posting relevant
    fonts (your own) is hardly a money-making scheme. I reckon if you total up the
    amount of time you spend replying to "recommend a font" threads versus the return
    from recommending your own, you end up out of pocket. I honestly think the typophiles
    'promoting' their own fonts in this way are genuinely trying to help, rather than
    make a quick sale.
  created: '2013-01-17 17:32:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: (or I can leave the spam where it is, just in case anyone needs a Cheep Homecoming
    dress ;)
  created: '2013-01-17 18:32:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nMaybe you should keep <strong>coachbag</strong> around to respond
    to requests for free font links\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-17 19:50:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Oh lord, be careful what you wish for!
  created: '2013-01-17 21:04:32'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I'm not a type designer, so self promotion is not something I would try to
    do here. As a type user I like having relevant recommendations from type designers,
    and would prefer to buy a font by someone I "know" if the alternative, similar
    font is by someone not from here. So please do promote, but tastefully.
  created: '2013-01-17 22:32:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Buy local. That\u2019s actually a really good point. I hadn\u2019t thought
    of that angle. Very good food for thought. Thank you."
  created: '2013-01-18 06:44:19'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "We already have a forum for \"Licensing, royalties, and the fine art of self-promotion.\"
    It's called \"Release.\" It's bad enough that we have people looking for type
    IDs in \"General Discussions\" without putting promotions in there as well.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're just talking about the Type ID forum, I don't find it so bad, but those
    that regularly promote fonts only from their font company do get a little tiresome.
    My eyes glaze over and I tune out."
  created: '2013-01-23 22:35:26'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "<blockquote>Buy local. [\u2026] Very good food for thought.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd
    a very good thought for food, too :)"
  created: '2013-01-24 02:40:23'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: I'm glad that I don't have your job. So what is the definition of excessive
    self promotion?
  created: '2013-01-31 15:39:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@phrostbyte64: Are you asking me?\r\n\r\n(fun fact, De Niro ad-libbed the
    famous \u201C<a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4e9CkhBb18E\">Are you talkin\u2019
    to me?</a>\u201D scene from Taxi Driver)"
  created: '2013-01-31 16:56:36'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I moderated a Dutch/Belgian Mac forum for quite a few years & tried to educate
    users as to where posts belonged. I even moved posts to the correct forums\u2026
    Did not help, so I started deleting \u2018misplaced\u2019 posts. Which helped
    educating the \u2018elder\u2019 users, but not the newbies. So I adapted my policy:
    For them I would provide a public service by responding with a boilerplate text
    and locking the thread. Carrot and stick \u2014 works most of the time.\r\n\r\nBut
    maybe TeleFinder was nicer software to use than what Typophile uses\u2026\r\n\r\nAdd.:
    How about having new users wait for a while before they get to post? Is that possible?"
  created: '2013-01-31 17:05:33'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Or try to make people read some relatively short 'you must read this before
    posting' suggestions. \r\n\r\nBUT ... you know those \"agreements\" that you must
    scroll through and then click an 'accept' box? One could make that process even
    more obnoxious and useless by locking each scrolled pane for a fixed amount of
    time - enough for the user to actually READ the content.  ... (I took an on-line
    senior driver course that worked that way. Click the button, go have coffee, come
    back, click another button."
  created: '2013-01-31 17:27:27'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "@Chris Dean: Yes, that would be you. Sorry. I'm always forgetting my forum
    etiquette. Something or some one must have brought this topic to mind. Which means
    that something is probably making someone uncomfortable or might. I would think
    you probably have some baseline ideas on the subject which might lead you to test
    the water and get a community consensus. \r\n\r\n\r\nPerhaps, and this is most
    likely the case, I'm over thinking this.\r\n\r\nPersonally, a shameless plug,
    if it is truly helpful and on topic, shouldn't be an issue. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-01 02:21:28'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I noticed in your business card thread there was a question of self-promotion
    because a printer had posted examples of his work. (Personally I did not see anything
    that special about the design of the latter two but the magician one was tasty
    and all must have required hard work to finish.)\r\n\r\nBut the point was he was
    proud of his work \u2013 and why not, it did not detract from the thread. \r\n\r\nSome
    people might collect something because they appreciate what is on the surface,
    others collect because of what goes into creating that surface.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2013-02-01 09:40:26'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "If you might accept a perspective based on a wider view of human ethics:\r\n\r\nIssue
    1 - The Intention of a Question. To use a recent post as an example: \"Alternative
    to \xABQuiosco\xBB\" ( http://typophile.com/node/100311 ), the intention of the
    question was to seek out suggestions for a quite specific set of requirements
    (foreign language and scientific accents which are more legible for school use).
    This type of intention is different than someone more simply looking for an alternative
    to a specific typeface for the purpose of saving a bit of money, or to find something
    in the same genre, but slightly different. Consequently, an operational suggestion
    might be to provide separate forum sections for these differing intentions.\r\n\r\nIssue
    2 - Self-promotion in an answer. Self-promotion of a specific typeface (or in
    the case @hrant and the aforementioned Alternative to Quiosco post, the capacity
    to customize existing fonts to meet specific needs) is not necessarily a good/bad
    or wrong/right proposition. The ethics is: how to couch the answer? In my travels
    through diverse cultures and comprehensions of ethics, the effective answer might
    be this:\r\n\r\n(a) first, make an honest effort to identify already existing
    alternatives as @Igor Freiberger did in attempting to provide a broad answer to
    the student's question... and certainly, list your own designs and/or preferences
    amongst the wider list... but do so transparently and non-aggressively... I once
    counseled a large computer retailer to first listen to the specific needs of a
    customer, and provide tailored solutions to the customer... and if, for any reason,
    you don't have the specific solution, it is wise to recommend to the customer
    to go somewhere else for that specific occasion (even help them to identify which
    retailer to visit). Customers remember this, and come back to gain \"honest\"
    buying suggestions. Long-term value versus short-term grab for money. A couple
    of the type designers that frequent Typophile, unfortunately, are just grabbing
    for short-term profits rather than seeing the wider, long-term value that they
    COULD have been providing. As a side note: from a designer's perspective, their
    designs are a true work of art (and indeed, they are). But to the user, fonts/typefaces
    are tools. That distinction tends to be lost when designers participate on forums
    such as this. An example: I personally love the pure artistry in H&FJ's Didot...
    and use it whenever it is appropriate. But there are other occasions where a condensed
    version of a didone is required... thus, I tend to turn to Porchez's Ambroise
    (which I also admire its artistry... if didones were wives, I would have these
    two!)... but, alas, at the end of the day, a specific function of the typeface
    is required, and I make my choice based on the needs of the reader, not the type
    designer.\r\n\r\n(b) only as last resort, should someone recommend a customization
    solution. How would you like to go into a computer store seeking solutions, and
    the salesperson, in his/her first breath says: hey, let me build you a custom
    computer?\r\n\r\nWell... just a view from the peanut gallery..."
  created: '2013-02-03 12:32:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well stated. I mostly agree, and would elaborate thus:\r\n- If you can quickly*
    think of an easy/affordable solution, offer it**. In the case of finding just
    the right font, some of us don't have an encyclopedic knowledge or haven't developed/collected
    search tools.\r\n- Recommend customization only if you think it's unlikely to
    find a good canned solution, or if it brings something extra that the requester
    might value (like exclusivity).\r\n- If you recommend yourself, also recommend
    that the person look to the rest of the Typophile crowd, and/or a specific expert:
    http://typophile.com/node/100207\r\n\r\n* Nobody should expect a \"stranger\"
    to spend hours helping him, with little hope for reward.\r\n\r\n** http://typophile.com/node/9482\r\n\r\nBTW
    this sort of thing shouldn't be done as a sort of false-modesty cover-up. It's
    simply good to be good.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 15:19:54'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "@hrant, why should it not be expected or hoped that a stranger might provide
    advice without expecting an immediate reward? Again, short-termism versus long-term
    relationships... how does one begin to build a relationship... only when there
    is a reward attached? I say this not merely from an ethical/spiritual perspective,
    but also from a practical perspective. The relationships that I am fortunate to
    have now, are most often as a result of many years ago providing counsel or just
    an ear/shoulder to someone in need... this is the human factor that I find missing
    in \"western\" culture, but is the core of socio-economic relationships in other
    parts of the world... there is a slippery slope component to your ethical judgements:
    it is predicated on \"consequence\" ethics, rather than ethical judgement based
    on \"natural truth\" as Immanuel Kant was trying to explore... if we truly love
    one another, then the relationships we develop (including economic relationships)
    will be much more than fruitful... they will be eternal in their power... \r\n\r\nSee
    the power of a font?\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 15:38:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're a recent arrival, so you don't realize that I agree with you. :-)
    \ In fact I've been helping people on Typophile for over 12 years now, generally
    with little hope of material reward. I guess the operative words in what I wrote
    are \"stranger\", \"hours\" and most of all, \"expect\". I just think it's unreasonable
    for somebody to pop up, ask for help on a difficult problem, and <em>expect</em>
    everybody to devote hours helping him. Trying one's luck is fine, but unreasonable
    expectations are not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 15:46:38'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "@hrant... sure, I agree that some (perhaps a lot) of folks abuse goodwill...
    my instinct, though, is that a site such as this could really blossom if focused
    more clearly on certain aspects of typography... the section relating to fontID,
    as an example is pretty abused by folk who have not taken the time to use whatthefont,
    etc...\r\n\r\n... and thus, the more focused the intention of the site, the better
    quality user will be attracted... the attraction principle...\r\n\r\n... cheers...
    (I'm sure someone will finally comment that I abuse ellipses... which I do...
    :)"
  created: '2013-02-03 16:29:36'
date: '2013-01-14 21:10:13'
node_type: forum
title: Posting or promoting?

---
