---
author:
  name: PauloCoe
body: "Hi guys!\r\n\r\nPeople told me if there is a place, where I can find help to
  figure out fonts - then its here. I really hope you can help me.\r\n\r\nI am looking
  for two fonts from an second world war propaganda poster. Can you recognize them?
  Or tell me free fonts that are looking very close to them?\r\n\r\nThat would be
  awesome!\r\n\r\nThanks in advance for your help.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nPauloCoe\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Quemadura
    picture: 123766
  body: The first (u&lc) feels close to Franticek Storm's Teuton.
  children:
  - author:
      name: PauloCoe
    body: "Awesome. This font works perfect. Just in case if anyone else would like
      to download it (only the normal version). This can be done [[http://fontzone.net/font-details/TeutonNormal|here]]
      for free.\r\n\r\nAny idea what the second font could be like?\r\n"
    created: '2013-01-16 15:54:59'
  created: '2013-01-16 15:26:15'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Try using the keyword \u201Cgaspipe\u201D at font sites for the second\u2026"
  children:
  - author:
      name: PauloCoe
    body: "Thanks for the tip. Found a font that looks good enough. It's called Oliver's
      Barney.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2013-01-16 16:58:27'
  created: '2013-01-16 16:39:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Phil, we don't like font piracy around here.\r\n\r\nNick: Jeff made an honest
    mistake helping Phil (a mistake I myself no longer take the risk of making) but
    why help him after he acquires -and points to- a pirated version of Teuton?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 19:21:33'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "\u2013"
  created: '2013-01-16 19:27:50'
- author:
    name: Quemadura
    picture: 123766
  body: Did I fall into some trap? My apologies.
  created: '2013-01-16 20:16:32'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Quemadura made no mistake with his statement \u201C<em>The first (u&lc) feels
    close to Franticek Storm's Teuton</em>\u201D? Someone asked for an ID and he helped.
    This was done <strong>before</strong> PauloCoe (allegedly) referred to a site
    with pirated fonts.\r\n\r\nHowever, that link is now 404. Does anyone know the
    URL so I can validate that the source is indeed violating copyright law? Pointing
    to cheep knockoffs is one thing, pointing to someone who is flat-out breaking
    the law, well that\u2019s easy. Simply send the URL to the copyright holder."
  created: '2013-01-16 20:25:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, like I said: an honest mistake. I <em>do</em> however consider it a
    mistake to provide such help to a \"stranger\". Because I suspect ~90% of font
    IDs lead to a font being pirated. And when the person admits to it (especially
    when he points to the source!) that's about as actionable as it gets. One warning.
    Second time, close the account. Anything less makes Typophile look like Mos Eisley.\r\n\r\nIt
    actually wouldn't be so bad if some of the people asking for IDs participated
    in actual discussions about fonts. But they almost never do; if you look at their
    pattern of behavior it's 95% hit-and-run. Even most of the long-term members who
    regularly provide type IDs* rarely do anything else here - it's like some dumb
    hobby. Helping people? Hey what about helping the place that's letting you help
    people not become some bottom-feeder** heaven...\r\n\r\n* We even have one guy
    who sells a piece of software that helps you find free \"alternatives\"...\r\n\r\n**
    http://typophile.com/node/99624\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong, I'm not some crusader
    out to stop piracy. Mostly this is about helping Typophile.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/99675#comment-537961\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Simply
    send the URL to the copyright holder.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd TypeSnitch.\r\n\r\nAnd
    of course remove the reference here! Even if it's a broken link. Teuton is in
    fact on that pirate site.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 20:52:15'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Helping Typophile, Hrant?\r\nYou gotta be kidding."
  created: '2013-01-16 21:03:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We each try to make it what we think it needs to be. And some people fight
    to stop others ruining that.\r\n\r\nSo let me ask you: are you OK with people
    bragging about pirating fonts and pointing to sources?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 21:15:10'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<blockquote>So let me ask you: are you OK with people bragging about pirating
    fonts and pointing to sources?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo, of course not. And I never
    provide links to pirated fonts.\r\nBut, since this place is flatlining and the
    temp state seems to be permanent I see no point in driving people away from here
    by accusing them of theft without proof (http://typophile.com/node/99624).\r\nYou
    want to help Typophile? Get the people back that left for Typedrawers."
  created: '2013-01-16 21:47:35'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Yeah, Hrant, you just keep on fighting until you\u2019re the last man standing."
  created: '2013-01-16 22:46:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "In an effort to deal with piracy, if anyone sees a thread (past, present,
    or future) with a link to a site that breaks copyright law, please email me.\r\n\r\ntypographer@gmail.com"
  created: '2013-01-16 23:33:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Glad to hear you don't condone it. But sometimes you're an -unwitting- accessory
    to it, and I'm hoping that doesn't feel good. And most of all, it would be useful
    if you -and many others- would jump in to complain when you see a really bad case.
    Not fighting for something makes it weaker. Feel free to be more tentative than
    me, but don't be afraid of driving the worst offenders away. You think I'm too
    aggressive - I think you're too passive.\r\n\r\n> http://typophile.com/node/99624\r\n\r\nWhat
    more proof do you need?! I have to say here that to me your silence there is in
    fact part of the problem I'm talking about. Certain people need to be driven away
    - or at least isolated from the parts of Typophile that actually value typeface
    design. You really think the best thing this place can be is a type ID swamp?\r\n\r\nI
    don't think your perception of Typophile -and the evolution of general online
    participation*- is realistic. I still see more typographic value on Typophile
    than anywhere else. As for the people who left (in actual effect far fewer than
    you imply**) perhaps they weren't meant to be discussing things in the open. Maybe
    they want a place where everybody is friendly to them. That's what cocktail parties
    are for.\r\n\r\n* So who's fault is Flickr's degradation? The ATypI group for
    this year's conference is a mere shadow of previous ones. Why?\r\n\r\n** Hey,
    check <em>this</em> out:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/99612#comment-538227\r\n\r\nBTW
    have you actually been reading Typedrawers? Can you really claim adding those
    meager (and often passive-aggressive) conversations here would revive this place?
    Pure delusion. I won't let you use me as a scapegoat. Instead try to help by being
    pro-active.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-17 03:40:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Jan, do you know what the Typedrawers people generally think of type
    IDs?...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-17 19:27:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "At some point I\u2019d like to compose a small piece of writing for people
    who continually ask for type IDs. Where it goes, I don\u2019t know. I\u2019m sure
    you'll agree with this one hrant. Something to the effect of:\r\n\r\n\u201CWith
    the exception of people using software to identify fonts, you are asking older
    people who were in the field years before computers existed. The only way they
    learned how to play \u201Cname that font\u201D was by <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rote_learning\">rote
    learning</a>. Sheer practice. Page after page, year after year. They never would
    have acquired this skill if they constantly asked others to do it for them. If
    you want to develop this skill, the only way is to practice. So buy a big-ass
    font book, and look at it every day with your morning coffee and evening pint.
    Remember \u2014 If you give a someone a fish, you feed them for a day; if you
    show someone how to catch fish, you feed them for a lifetime (Chinese proverb).
    \r\n\r\nAddendum: I can easily scare away a first date by pointing to a font every
    5 minutes and telling her what it is. Pub sign, drink menu, menu, coaster, poster,
    katsup bottle, table advertisement, bathroom doors, desert menu, taxi door\u2026
    If I made it that far, I\u2019m either getting into that cab, or going back into
    the pub alone to have a few more pints ;)"
  created: '2013-01-17 19:43:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Nick: Jeff made an honest mistake helping Phil (a mistake I myself no
    longer take the risk of making) but why help him after he acquires -and points
    to- a pirated version of Teuton?</em>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t recall advising Paolo
    to search pirate sites for \u201Cgaspipe,\u201D which is\u2014after all\u2014merely
    a style designator. Did I miss something?"
  created: '2013-01-17 19:59:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "He just strikes me as the sort of user that should be shunned.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-17 20:08:40'
- author:
    name: Mike F
    picture: 109911
  body: "First of all, I want to sincerely thank the several posters that have stood
    up and challenged the ugliness of Hrant the Bully in this thread.\r\n\r\nJeff
    - you did nothing wrong. You were - God forbid - helpful.\r\n\r\nPaulCoe - as
    an artsit (per your profile) I'm sure it wouldn't bother you for someone to take
    your art without paying, right? Not right? Well then, why is it OK for you to
    take a commercial font without paying - and then offer it via a link for lots
    of other folks to steal?\r\n\r\nHrant the Bully - I do understand the underlying
    frustration inherent in your agenda here. As one of the original moderators of
    MyFonts' What The Font forum, I've been through several stages of that frustration.
    The first was angrily confronting posters who linked to illicit download sites
    for commercial fonts. Skipping through several stages in between (because you
    wouldn't understand) we arrive at two years ago, when there were more moderators,
    several of which (not I) were accosting the aforementioned posters of bad links
    with aggressive confrontation and ugliness - not unlike your own. After awhile,
    the moderators' official MyFonts contact (a great, easy-to-talk-to guy) asked
    those aggressive mods to tone it down. Why?\r\n\r\nWell, the main point was that
    it made the forum a <em>far</em> less friendly place. That's a point, it seems,
    that you could care less about ... but are you <em>hearing us</em> that it <em>does</em>
    matter to some of us? Secondly (I was, at the time, amazed to hear this), MyFonts
    does not consider those renegade posters a threat at all! Those posters come to
    MyFonts with no intent of paying for a font - and no amount of berating will change
    that. Education <em>might</em> later on change their view (I verbosely tried that
    for a couple of interim years), but only for that single poster.\r\n\r\nTherein
    lies the absurdity of your agenda here, Hrant the Bully: Your extremist approach
    accomplishes <strong>absolutely nothing</strong> toward your goal! The willfully
    defiant are more defiant and the clueless (the vast majority of those you berate)
    carry on in their cluelessness. Lack of awareness about fonts and the people who
    make them is one of the most arcane and negligible sins of this world. As such,
    it's one of the most forgivable. To make clueless transgressors the target of
    your bile is sad.\r\n\r\n>>Yes, like I said: an honest mistake. I do however consider
    it a mistake to provide such help to a \"stranger\". Because I suspect ~90% of
    font IDs lead to a font being pirated.<<\r\n\r\nYou contradicted yourself there.
    According to you, Jeff made a mistake by providing help to a \"stranger\".\r\n\r\nSuspicion
    and presupposition should guide our helpfulness? Ah ... no. I doubt anyone here
    would agree with you. That's the equivalent of guilty until proven innocent -
    which is exactly what you've been throwing around here lately.\r\n\r\n>>It actually
    wouldn't be so bad if some of the people asking for IDs participated in actual
    discussions about fonts. But they almost never do; if you look at their pattern
    of behavior it's 95% hit-and-run. <<\r\n\r\nWHAT???  Posters who have their font
    identified and don't stick around to discuss it??? You're kidding, right? Well,
    no - you aren't kidding. You actually expect every poster asking for help here
    to be a typophile (type lover). What planet do you live on, Hrant the Bully? Some
    posters actually take the stated purpose of this forum at face value -and not
    for anything else: \"Need to know what font it is? Post it here.\"\r\n\r\n>>Even
    most of the long-term members who regularly provide type IDs* rarely do anything
    else here - it's like some dumb hobby.<<\r\n\r\nLike a bully, you've just insulted
    most of the helpful identifiers here - almost all with a pirating detestation
    near on par with your own. The difference is that we are realists and not unrealistic
    extremists with an unrealistic agenda like yourself.\r\n\r\nFinally, I only can
    only best copy/paste Jan's simple post:\r\n\"Helping Typophile, Hrant?\r\nYou
    gotta be kidding.\"\r\n\r\nPrecisely. The poster flaunting his/her lawlessness?
    Many of us censure him/her (On MyFonts, a steal-the-font link is very soon seen
    by a moderator and edited out. Here, e-mailing a person with authority to do so
    is a clunky, slow solution). The clueless poster (the vast majority)? Education
    might help, but confrontational anger only irritates. And the next clueless poster?
    They've almost certainly read none of what has come before.\r\n\r\nSo what, then,
    is your ugly-gatekeeper ranting accomplishing? Nearly nothing. You accomplish
    nothing against the posters you don't like. New posters you don't like (apparently
    any \"stranger\") surely haven't read prior posts and are at high risk for pissing
    you off. The <em>only</em> thing you are accomplishing is making this forum an
    ugly, unfriendly place. How absurd an outcome of an agenda is that?\r\n\r\n>>He
    just strikes me as the sort of user that should be shunned.<<\r\n\r\nJ. Edgar
    Hoover. Speaks volumes to Americans. I'm sorry I'm not learned enough to bring
    up an international equivalent (if one exists)."
  created: '2013-01-18 01:18:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "MyFonts is a business. Typophile is not. Your brand of \"friendly\" I see
    as a disease of contemporary Western society, and something that's often subverted
    to make our masters richer. What you describe as \"standing up to a bully\" I
    instead see as blindly defending a self-centered, shallow, hedonistic philosophy.\r\n\r\nThe
    only reason certain others who think like me (I am not alone) aren't fighting
    like me is that they've given up on the situation. I might too one day. But not
    yet.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Your extremist approach accomplishes absolutely nothing
    toward your goal!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou haven't seen extremism.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm
    a pragmatic person, so I'm not yet sure it's wasted effort. It's not impossible
    that Typophile might one day have moderators who are more strict with people who
    clearly have no respect for type design, and the confrontation I'm engendering
    might be a catalyst. The main impediment to this is simply that Punchcut is sadly
    99% hands-off now (and really, it's always been pretty hands-off).\r\n\r\nYour
    intentions might be good, but your method is fatally flawed. You (plural) are
    making this place worse, in terms of how it can best serve typography - as opposed
    to merely serving individuals who only ever want vapid font IDs (and those who
    consider IDing fonts as a big accomplishment).\r\n\r\nSince there's virtually
    no interaction between people who ID type and people who discuss type, I reiterate
    my suggestion of separating the two parts as much as possible, so that people
    who care about type don't get upset (often leaving) and people who don't want
    to be bothered by this can carry on with their lifestyle. My own desire is not
    at all to change anybody's personal beliefs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-18 01:44:38'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Thanks Mike.\r\nMy sentiments exactly."
  created: '2013-01-18 10:07:34'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Wow: quite a dust-up. No matter which side of the fence you sit on, it is
    abundantly clear that this site is seeing more and more traffic from people who
    don\u2019t even have the common courtesy (or is it simply common sense?) of reading
    the forum headings before posting their font ID requests. \r\n\r\nThe font ID
    service provided here is free\u2014unlike all of the other ad-supported sites\u2014so,
    if we get more than our fair share of freeloaders, what else can we expect? Doesn\u2019t
    EVERYONE deserve EVERYTHING they want?"
  created: '2013-01-18 13:18:59'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "I think most of us agree that it does not get us anywhere to berate people
    based on their presumptive attitude towards buying fonts. You also can\u2019t
    walk up to every man you see and start interrogating him\u2014So, where have you
    been last night?\u2014just because a man is statistically more likely than a woman
    to be a criminal. Well, you can do this, but I don\u2019t think it would contribute
    anything to improving society, just like pirate hunting is not effective in terms
    of improving Typophile. And it seems sufficient to me that the type ID board is
    separated from the other boards. You could ask Punchcut to devise an entry page
    that gives you two options: \u2018I need a font ID\u2019 (in large type) and \u2018I
    want to participate in general discussions\u2019 (in smaller type). It\u2019s
    (unfortunately?) not very likely that they will implement something like this.\r\n\r\nOne
    more thing: It might help to draft a concise explanation why pirating fonts is
    bad, written in layman\u2019s terms. You could link to such a pamphlet when users
    seem to be misinformed about font licensing (which covers a considerable share
    of those asking here and elsewhere). I think that\u2019s the only thing you can
    do: throw out those who openly brag about their collection of pirated fonts, try
    to educate those who don\u2019t know what they are doing (without playing the
    schoolmaster) and live with the rest."
  created: '2013-01-18 13:40:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/99793#comment-538737\r\nIf you don't act on cases
    like that, your (plural) supposed concern for the welfare of type design and Typophile
    is very difficult to take seriously. Please do not trade integrity for \"friendliness\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-18 17:03:18'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@R.\r\n\r\nNoble sentiments from a nobody, it seems. If you can\u2019t own
    your own words, don\u2019t expect them to carry any weight with real people who
    use their real names and express their real opinions, whether you like them or
    not\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-19 13:24:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I think there are occasional good reasons to stay anonymous. The
    main problem is when people use anonymity to attack without risking retaliation,
    which R. is not doing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-19 14:52:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "oldnick makes a good point about names. When I came here six years ago it
    was in fact considered rude not to use your real name. I don\u2019t recall what
    my first screen-name was, but I do recall that once I used real information I
    was taken more seriously and got more responses to comments. However, <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vCWdCKPtnYE\">that
    was six years ago\u2026</a>"
  created: '2013-01-20 00:51:28'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nWith all due respect, no\u2014there are no <em>good</em> reasons
    to stay anonymous, only expedient or convenient reasons\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-20 02:23:13'
date: '2013-01-16 14:20:13'
title: Second World War Propaganda Poster Fonts

---
