---
author:
  name: SebastianK
  picture: 119798
body: "This might seem like a weird question, but as a university student I regularly
  get assignments in which, instead of a simple word count, requirements \xE0 la \"5
  pages, double-spaced\" are stipulated by the professor. Sometimes a point size is
  given, sometimes a margin width, but that is actually unusual (rendering the commandment
  toothless as a length limit, of course).\r\n\r\nI understand that they're just trying
  to avoid having to read assignments in 8-point Comic Sans, but I'd much rather submit
  something like [[http://www.typographyforlawyers.com/pdf/tfl_sample_memo_after.pdf|this]]
  than [[http://www.typographyforlawyers.com/pdf/tfl_sample_memo_before.pdf|this]]
  for obvious reasons.\r\n\r\nSince I'm not a document designer myself, does anyone
  have suggestions on how to best deal with the above \"5 pages, double-spaced\" assignment?
  (I have one coming up.) Links to successful layouts, suggestions for fonts (I assume
  larger x-heights work better?), suggestions for the treatment of subheadings, lists,
  blockquotes etc.\r\n\r\n(Some will say I shouldn't bother and just conform, but
  I'm genuinely interested in how designers usually work with weird constraints.)\r\n\r\nThanks
  everyone! \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "There can be a variety of reasons why your professor gives those constraints,
    such as to avoid weirdly formatted papers, or to allow room for the professor's
    comments, or to make it easier to compare the lengths of reports by different
    students.\r\n\r\n> I'm genuinely interested in how designers \r\n> usually work
    with weird constraints\r\n\r\nI talk to the client and ask the reason for the
    constraints. Sometimes the constraints turn out to be reasonable after I learn
    the reasons for them, but if they still don't I try to convince the client that
    changing them is a good idea. \r\n\r\nIf the client has constraints I consider
    unreasonable and won't budge after a discussion, sometimes I'll prepare 2 layouts,
    one using the client's constraints, and one without, and hopefully they'll see
    that my way is better. \r\n\r\nIn your situation, I'd make a sample page 2 ways
    \u2014 using their design and using yours \u2014 and then have a private conversation
    with your professor, show them both designs and politely ask if yours is acceptable.
    Worst they can do is say no."
  created: '2013-01-19 17:11:39'
- author:
    name: David Vereschagin
    picture: 122439
  body: "You\u2019re over-thinking the situation. What the prof wants is example number
    2. Use the Word defaults and make it double-spaced.\r\n\r\nSorry.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-19 17:28:07'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "I have a different take on this dilemma, and in fact I don't think it's a
    dilemma at all.\r\n\r\nI am a book designer. I am also a college student, and
    when I write academic papers, I type them in Word, 1 inch margins, Times New Roman,
    double spaced. Because this is the accepted <em>manuscript</em> format. There
    are things that should be \"designed\" \u2014 like published papers \u2014 and
    things that essentially should not \u2014 like manuscripts of papers. In fact,
    designers typically hate it when authors try to \"format\" or \"design\" their
    manuscripts: that's not their job.\r\n\r\nI think it's great that you want to
    make your assignments as attractive and readable as possible, but you're really
    confusing two different things \u2014 manuscript guidelines for <em>typists</em>
    and typesetting as executed by <em>typographers</em>.\r\n\r\nDesigning within
    constraints is always a good exercise, but this particular constraint is one that
    you will never encounter in the realm of designing published work. In fact, part
    of the whole point of the constraint is to <em>prevent</em> authors from trying
    to design their manuscripts and interfering with their uniformity.\r\n\r\nSure,
    you pose an interesting question: what sorts of typefaces work best with large
    amounts of leading? But I really would stay away from trying too hard to design
    academic papers. I fully expect many people on Typophile to disagree."
  created: '2013-01-19 17:33:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Double-spaced text layout became the norm for 'copy', i.e. pre-publication
    manuscript, of which academic essays are a subclass, in order to facilitate editorial
    comment and correction.
  created: '2013-01-19 18:24:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry David, but to me that's better than the under-thinking you seem to
    be promoting...\r\n\r\nRequirements like this are meant to dumb people down to
    make certain other people's lives simpler. In contrast James's valiant approach
    aims to make people's lives <em>better</em>.\r\n\r\nJoshua, ideally every document
    should be designed. To me dumbing-down is not a \"design constraint\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-19 18:29:04'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Sebastian - you are not submitting camera-ready material for publication,
    but, in effect, the contents of a manuscript. From the professor's point of view,
    having all submissions in a consistent format eliminates all conscious and sub-conscious
    positives and negatives related to \"how it looks\" and leaves only the important
    part, which in this case is the content.\r\n\r\nRequiring double-spaced submissions
    is very common, including legal briefs in many jurisdictions as well as submission
    of magazine articles. \r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2013-01-19 18:31:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>leaves only the important part, which in this case is the content.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    form cannot be divorced from the content. They are important <em>together</em>.
    Many college professors need to be educated concerning this important subtlety.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-19 18:35:32'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "I didn't expect this much input so quickly, thank you all!\r\n\r\nI hope
    it's clear that my typographic worldview is reflected enough that I understand
    the intention behind the requirement, and that I have no interest in convincing
    my professors that it is, by whatever haughty dogma, <em>wrong</em>.\r\n\r\nI'm
    simply wondering if you have any practical tips, or if maybe in the back of your
    head you remember that <em>book/article X had huge leading, but because of Y and
    by using Z, that actually worked surprisingly well</em>, and would be willing
    to share.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-19 18:35:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Sebastian, the typography of the romantic period tended to favour large leading.
    I believe this was done to compensate for the verticality of the Didot, Bodoni
    and related type styles, which benefit from looser leading to make the individual
    lines of text easier to follow contra to the vertical emphasis of the letters.
    While I don''t think this logic can be reversed to suggest that such types counter
    the looseness of the leading in any functionally significant way, they are at
    least forms that are aesthetically at home with large interlinear spacing. Take
    a look at Robert Slimbach''s Kepler type: it is stylistically within this tradition,
    but is not so extreme in its treatment of stroke modulation as most digital versions
    of Didot, Bodoni, etc.'
  created: '2013-01-19 19:19:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The form cannot be divorced from the content.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you mean
    that all texts are instantiated and, hence, have form, that's a fair if tautological
    statement. But it doesn't imply anything about the particular form of any particular
    content, which may indeed have an entirely arbitrary relationship such as that
    required by any standardised document format. For example, Hollywood screenplays
    are expected to conform to standardised formatting, and this doesn't vary whether
    the film in question is a romantic comedy or a sci-fi thriller. It is a standardised
    format that has little to recommend it to any typographer, but it is functionally
    useful for the people who have to work with the script: it provides ample space
    for annotation, and by requiring all screenplays to follow the same standard it
    enables accurate predictions about timing and length. Likewise, the double-spacing
    of pre-publication copy and academic essays is functionally useful to the people
    have to work with that copy. These days, this might not be very evident in the
    context of college essays, but that is because most teachers are overworked and
    don't have time to provide detailed copy feedback, and at the undergrad level
    most students are not involved in seminar situations that require them to give
    such feedback to their peers. Now, one might argue that the formatting requirements
    of college essays should change to reflect the current realities of academic life,
    but isn't that just a different kind of dumbing down: making documents look nicer
    typographically to compensate for the fact that no one is engaging with them at
    a text-critical level?"
  created: '2013-01-19 19:20:59'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nbut isn't that just a different kind of dumbing down: making
    documents look nicer typographically to compensate for the fact that no one is
    engaging with them at a text-critical level?\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's besides
    the point of my question, but I think this is a fantastic question. Although in
    my experience generous margins are more beneficial; I only ever see annotations
    cramped into 1-inch columns, often sideways, but rarely in between lines.\r\n\r\nEdit,
    in reply to your second post: thank you! That is an interesting piece of information.
    I'll take a look."
  created: '2013-01-19 19:25:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here's a useful illustration of the copy editing process as applied to different
    document formats at different stages of publication. The academic essay submission
    shares the format of the initial stage, and for the same reason, so that significant
    text edits can be clearly indicated.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/copy-editing_5005.gif]\r\n\r\nWhile
    copy editing of typeset text is possible, using marginal markup, it is much more
    arduous both to do and to review."
  created: '2013-01-19 20:20:34'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: 'Your illustration confirms my point: college essays aren''t manuscripts,
    and professors or high school teachers aren''t editors. They ignore typos and
    wording, but leave comments like "this contradicts what you said about X two paragraphs
    above", "great example, you could elaborate on Y more" or "interesting point,
    this could be linked to the concepts discussed in class about article Z". The
    one-inch-margins-double-spaced mantra is counter-productive to that; for all intents
    and purposes, students really are directly publishing their work to the one-man
    audience that is their professor.'
  created: '2013-01-19 20:48:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>They ignore typos and wording</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but they didn't use to,
    and that is the context in which the format requirements developed. As I said
    previously, an argument can be made that formatting should change to reflect current
    realities, but I think understanding the context of those realities is important.
    In the case of college-level papers, it is worth bearing in mind that while the
    majority of students at any given time are undergraduates, almost everything about
    academic practice is geared to graduate students and faculty, and hence formatting
    requirements tend to follow those of journal and book publishing submission requirements,
    since that is what graduate students and faculty are working towards."
  created: '2013-01-19 21:34:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Charles, I've not done a close comparison of character coverage between the
    Brill types and the most recent version of Gentium, but yes, I think the Brill
    types cover some stuff not in Gentium, but vice versa is also the case (Gentium
    covers extended Cyrillic, whereas the Brill types only support Slavic languages
    (reflecting Brill's publishing needs)). Also, the Brill family includes Bold and
    Bold Italic fonts, which are not present for Gentium. The Brill non-commercial
    license does indeed permit thesis/manuscript preparation.
  created: '2013-01-19 21:43:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Johnathan,  would that were true (maybe). I'm a book typesetter. Now that
    the vast majority of editors work on the author's computer files,  we see a lot
    of varying formats with manuscripts -- from the old double-spaced Courier (or
    Pica) to slam-it-tight Times. That is, 1200 characters per page to over 2800.\r\n
    \r\nFar as I'm concerned, the most important thing is to use Unicode. Let's skip
    the little drawings and instructions that say \"make it look like this ---\",
    and the invented codes, when the proper character is available in Unicode.\r\n\r\nFor
    texts in the humanities, the best typeface has been either Charis or Gentium.
    Gentium has a few more characters, Charis has bolds. There are Scholarly Journals
    (esp. those in areas that have romanized scripts) that require Gentium for article
    submission, as the correct Unicode character can usually be found within. Of course,
    I prefer Charis, as I've said before, we have a version that has been used for
    books selected for AAUP book show (which is a juried show). But that does require
    font modification for that level of quality...\r\n\r\nHere's a thought: I downloaded
    & took a look at John Hudson's The Brill, and for manuscript preparation, it should
    be great. I think it a beautiful typeface, but as a commercial typesetter, I'll
    only get the opportunity to use it (1) if I again become an author, or (2) wind
    up setting another book for Brill. For that reason, I've not looked too closely
    at the character compliment, but likely it's broader than Gentium (John?)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.brill.com/author-gateway/brill-fonts\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, <strong>read the license thoroughly,</strong> but I believe it's OK
    with Brill to use the fonts in the context of thesis/manuscript preparation.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nTo the original poster: David pegged it. Word or Open Office defaults.
    Open Office is free, BTW. And if you want it to be typeset, use InDesign, or learn
    TeX. Word doesn't cut it."
  created: '2013-01-19 22:26:04'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Your illustration confirms my point</em>\u2026\r\n\r\nNo, it does not:
    John\u2019s example of how copy-editing works clearly shows that you had no idea
    of what you were talking about in your original post. In a learning environment,
    practical reasons trump \u201Caesthetic concerns,\u201D period. And, from what
    I remember, lo these many years on, English professors most assuredly do not ignore
    either typos nor wording.\r\n\r\n<em>students really are directly publishing their
    work to the one-man audience that is their professor</em>\r\n\r\nYes, precisely\u2014except
    it should be \u201Cthe one-man audience <strong>who</strong> is their professor\u2026\u201D"
  created: '2013-01-20 02:17:56'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Not to pick on you unmercifully -- he said, picking on you unmercifully,
    but\r\n\r\n<cite>but I'd much rather submit something like this than this for
    obvious reasons.</cite>\r\n\r\nYour preference is pretty flawed, from my perspective.
    The initial paragraph suggest three points, and you enumerate them, 1, 2, 3. But
    in the text, instead of using numbers, you use alphabetical characters (A, B,
    C). Why?\r\n\r\nYou've chosen to set justified. But in the first paragraph, you've
    got four line-ending hyphens in a row. Usually not allowed. In the third paragraph,
    you've also got improper hyphenation (ma-lice, s/b mal-ice). If you're not going
    to set justified copy correctly, set it ragged, without hyphenation. Perfectly
    acceptable in a manuscript.\r\n\r\nWhy boldface for the headings -- if they are
    headings? Boldface breaks up the text. Very useful in travel books, where reading
    is not continuous. A reader can be expected to read first to find a hotel. After
    they have perused & finally booked their hotel,  the might want to look at all
    the restaurants. When satiated, they might want to concentrate on night life.\r\n\r\nBut
    if reading is continuous, the blank line above and the identifier A (or 1) is
    sufficient. Boldface is for a reason, and that reason is never to borrow authority.
    The authority comes from the writing.\r\n\r\nGraphically, you're sort of going
    flush left, which is fine. But it's \"sort of\" due to the way you've done that
    first headblock. If you want the gutter in that element to have even space, OK,
    but set \"From\" flush left. In any case, the gutter is too wide.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I don't like such deep paragraph indents, but you can argue that. In the monospaced
    manuscripts on 8.5 x 11 paper, five characters was common.  Typeset is usually
    either an em space (about two characters), or a pica (usually about an em + an
    en). The deeper your paragraph indent, the more trouble you're going to have getting
    even spacing on that first line (unarguable),  and the large space causes the
    reader to slow down (again unarguable). Why do you want them to slow down? The
    last, at least, is arguable. I'd say if you've done a good job writing, they shouldn't
    need to slow down.\r\n\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\nCombining good form with good thinking isn't
    easy, and probably isn't required for a term paper. But if, as John suggests,
    this is preparation for writing professional articles, you'll be a lot happier
    with the editor's markup if you learn early. And you may wind up doing a better
    job of presenting your text than the eventual designer does. Sad, but all too
    often true.\r\n\r\nIn any case, good luck with it."
  created: '2013-01-20 04:17:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "How does one edit one\u2019s own writing?\r\n\r\nThe advantage of double-spacing
    is that one can see both \u201Cbefore\u201D and \u201Cafter\u201D adjacent to
    each other, which provides perspective.\r\n\r\nAnd it may be that, upon re\uFB02ection,
    the original text one crossed out is better than the revision, hence the editing
    mark for \u201Cstet\u201D (let it stand).\r\n\r\nThese days, if one edits directly
    in a word processing application, on screen, this facility vanishes (although
    one might have previous versions of a document saved for comparison).\r\n\r\nWhen
    I\u2019m doing serious writing (as opposed to this frivolous Typophile stuff),
    I always typeset it double spaced (in one of my fonts), print it out, and edit/rewrite
    on that, between the lines.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I suspect the proli\uFB01c
    Boz had productivity in mind when he limited the space between lines, giving himself
    less space to dally: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/A-page-from-the-manuscrip-007_5449.jpg]"
  created: '2013-01-20 18:00:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Nick, I believe Microsoft Word has the capability of showing the edit history
    of a document, but like you I find edits easier when they are on paper in some
    situations.\r\n\r\nErnest Hemingway's famous quote on the subject of editing:
    \"The first draft of anything is s***.\""
  created: '2013-01-20 21:20:42'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "Thanks for all the comments, gentlemen!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\nNo, it does
    not: John\u2019s example of how copy-editing works clearly shows that you had
    no idea of what you were talking about in your original post. In a learning environment,
    practical reasons trump \u201Caesthetic concerns,\u201D period. And, from what
    I remember, lo these many years on, English professors most assuredly do not ignore
    either typos nor wording.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\n... aaand the wrath of Typophile
    is upon me! :-) I may have to make a qualification: I'm in Engineering, not in
    the Humanities, and I can tell you with certainty that I've <em>never</em> encountered
    \"old school\" copy-editing, despite being often told that it's the reason for
    the double spacing. Manuscripts are submitted to journals as TeX files. But whatever
    the professors' (self-defeating) intentions are, I don't really care.\r\nYou all
    read my question as \"how can I best circumvent this oh-so-arbitrary rule and
    show off my formatting skills to my oh-so-clueless professor.\" No. What I mean
    is very simply: \"given that the only common denominator between all submitted
    essays will be double spacing, what are some good choices for all the other design
    parameters to unobtrusively maximize reading pleasure?\"\r\n\r\nCharles, thank
    you. The examples I linked to are from fellow typophile Matthew Butterick ([[http://www.typographyforlawyers.com/?page_id=1405|Typography
    for Lawyers]]), and they were just meant as an illustration, but your unmerciful
    comments are quite insightful and much appreciated."
  created: '2013-01-20 22:35:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, I was more interested in the tangent!\r\n\r\nTo answer your question:
    \u201CBook\u201D faces are generally considered best for wide columns and open
    leading. That\u2019s because they usually have small x-heights and ergo long extenders.
    The long extenders mitigate the dreary effect of a plain page of text (nothing
    like the Butterick examples) seeming to be a stack of gray bars.\r\n\r\nTraditional
    examples are Garamond, Perpetua and Bembo. If these seem too quaint and/or humanistic,
    perhaps Sabon (not Sabon Next), which is quite neutral in effect for a Garalde,
    especially with its Italic having the same character count as the Roman.\r\n\r\nFor
    a didone, Bodoni Book or my Scotch Modern.\r\n\r\nFor a sans, Avenir.\r\n\r\nFor
    a slab, Serifa or my Bodoni Egyptian.\r\n\r\nAll these have ample extenders.\r\nAvenir
    would be my \uFB01rst choice.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-21 00:07:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>whatever the professors' (self-defeating) intentions are, I don't really
    care</em>\u2026\r\n\r\nWhich is to say, \u201CI\u2019m right, everyone else is
    wrong, case closed.\u201D An  Engineering major? Really? With such self-serving
    rationalizations, I would have thought Law, Business or Politics\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-21 00:28:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Best. Avoidance behaviour. Ever. \r\n\r\nWorry about the <strong>content</strong>
    of the paper, not the font. Follow the guidelines to facilitate marking for the
    TA. If you had to pick one detail, argue against single sided as it wastes paper.
    I have chosen to accept an F instead and won. You can also reduce the margins
    to save some paper. 99% of the time it\u2019s a grad student TA requesting your
    \u201Cthis*\u201D guidelines, simply following old departmental regulations, and
    they could care less. Provided, as you said, it\u2019s not 8-point Comic Sans.
    Just ask them and show them an example. If they resist, at least you tried. If
    spending time on the design is not going to influence this, don\u2019t waste your
    time. Get a head start writing your next paper instead. Think of the most efficient
    allocation of your\u2019s, <em>and</em> the marker\u2019s resources \u2014 primarily
    time \u2014 and let that guide your design decision making process. And always
    be mindful of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diminishing_returns\">the
    law of diminishing returns</a>.\r\n \r\n*Please use descriptive hyperlinks to
    assist visually impared readers using text-to-speech software."
  created: '2013-01-21 01:14:00'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "Nick Shinn: Thank you, that is fantastic advice and exactly what I was looking
    for.\r\n\r\nOldnick: You're quite hostile. When all I'm ever told is \"because
    that's just how it's done, period\" and/or \"because it's easier to read\" (compared
    to what? No leading, maybe?) and/or \"because it's better for copy-editing\" (yeah,
    according to my high school teacher six years ago, but then nobody ever copy-edits,
    so I'd dismissed this as nonsense), then yes, I'll readily conclude that their
    own requirements are at best outdated, and at worst legibility-impairing. Since
    I'm not the one grading my essays, I don't really care enough about their intentions
    to argue about them. If that qualifies as self-serving, fine. But I didn't come
    to this forum to argue about the requirement. I came to ask how to best deal with
    mandated double spacing. I have now learned that, in other disciplines maybe,
    professors still copy-edit their students' essays. Fault me for not being specific
    enough from the start if you want, but what does all that have to do with my question?\r\n\r\nChris:
    Of course you're right. Look, people, I've submitted double-spaced papers for
    many, many years, and will continue to do so. Of course I know that using 150%
    spacing instead of 200% looks fine and will always make everyone happy. All I
    was hoping for was a post like Nick's above, because I've always wondered how
    to best make double-spaced work. (Also, the screen reader thing is an interesting
    heads up. I'll keep that in mind.)"
  created: '2013-01-21 03:17:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sebastian, hang tough. A bureaucrat will die a bureaucrat, and even before
    the casket starts leaking he will be forgotten.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-21 03:35:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "hrant speaks the truth. There is certainly something to be said for at least
    <em>trying</em> to fight the good fight. For example, the following year the TA
    I refused to give that single sided paper to petitioned his department and actually
    got the standard changed.\r\n\r\nThat said, having worked with government for
    a few years, the metaphor someone once used to describe my passion for trying
    to change the system (when I was 20 years younger) was \u201Clike beating your
    face into a brick wall until it is a bloody pulp.\u201D True story.\r\n\r\n\u201C<em><a
    href=\"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5PdVkA3HYYY\">The effort yields its own
    rewards</a></em>.\u201D (0:45)\r\n~Data"
  created: '2013-01-21 04:15:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I came to ask how to best deal with mandated double spacing</em>\r\n\r\nSimple:
    Comply. And, next time, choose your fights more wisely\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-21 12:37:18'
date: '2013-01-19 16:18:24'
title: How to deal with double-spaced formatting requirements?

---
