---
author:
  name: sim
  picture: 129649
body: "Sorry for the error. I posted in the wrong forum, here again the question.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/99960\r\n\r\nThe
  basic question concerning the use of Roboto. Is this font is suited for print work
  or it's a font to use in Web only? The second issue is about the license, may I
  use it for print on corporate use (no object will be sale with the font on it, example:
  no tshirt, no poster\u2026). Thanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: IIRC, many people's beef with Roboto was that it didn't look good in print,
    so don't expect flowers and unicorns. As for the licence, it's the Apache licence,
    version 2.0, and as far as I can tell, it does not limit what you can use it for.
    But how the Dis I'm gunna arrange it for a symphonic orchestra and two death metal
    bands, I'm yet to figure out.
  created: '2013-01-23 21:08:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW does Apache 2.0 also allow reselling a modification?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-24 02:31:52'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>does Apache 2.0 also allow reselling a modification?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nApparently
    it does (emphasis is mine):\r\n\r\n<blockquote>3. Grant of Patent License. Subject
    to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to
    You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
    (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, <em>offer
    to sell, sell</em>, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license
    applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily
    infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
    with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent
    litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
    alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes
    direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to
    You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation
    is filed.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTaken from: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"
  created: '2013-01-24 09:44:24'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "If I have read it correctly, and I'm pretty sure I have... yes. The licence
    does permit redistribution of original and modified materiel, and I have not seen
    any restrictions regarding the means, only that one must enclose a copy of the
    licence and any NOTICE file(s) that may have come with the original, one must
    log in one's own name that this is modified materiel, and <em>no dropping others'
    copyright, trademark, patent or attribution notices.</em>\r\n\r\nAnyroads, there
    should be a good copy of this and other licences on [[http://www.opensource.org/|opensource.org]]."
  created: '2013-01-24 10:01:28'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Thank you for your answers. I will make test for sure  ;-)
  created: '2013-01-24 12:38:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool - thanks.\r\n\r\nIs there a list of fonts with an Apache license?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-24 14:30:14'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Is there a list of fonts with an Apache license?</cite>\r\nA better
    question is: \"Is there some big list of fonts available under FOSS licenses,
    with download links and some explanation of the limitations of said licenses as
    they pertain to redistribution and usage?\""
  created: '2013-01-25 00:55:51'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Is this font is suited for print work or it's a font to use in Web
    only? </cite> \r\nIf it doesn't look good in print, it may have been a poor choice
    for Android devices, which now often have 300+ ppi screens. If it was intended
    for Android 2.3 ICS only, that may be a forgivable sin, since there are fewer
    hi-ppi devices--but certainly one that should be reconsidered. We are quickly
    approaching a point where there is no important difference between 'screen' and
    'print', other than that text on a mobile device UI may be at low point sizes
    and accommodate UI elements. "
  created: '2013-01-25 01:02:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, no, just the stuff I can add Armenian to and sell. As far as I can tell
    only the Apache license (does the version matter?) would allow that.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>We
    are quickly approaching a point where there is no important difference between
    'screen' and 'print'</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt sure seems like that. But don't believe
    the hype.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-25 01:10:14'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>No, no, just the stuff I can add Armenian to and sell.</cite>\r\nI
    understand your use case. \r\nI think a BSD license would let you do this too,
    but I don't know if anyone is distributing fonts this way. Also, I'm not a lawyer.
    The point is, there are many different FOSS licenses, created and used for a variety
    of real and imagined reasons, and its a big confusing mess. I'm sure we can at
    least agree on that point. The 'big hypothetical list' I'm talking about would
    be a central clearinghouse to sort out the minutia.  Does such a thing exist?"
  created: '2013-01-25 02:08:03'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: You could start with <a href="http://typophile.com/node/97575">that thread</a>,
    of course.
  created: '2013-01-25 02:43:10'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: Thanks.
  created: '2013-01-25 03:04:38'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: While the Open Font License does not permit selling the licensed materiel
    as an independent product, it does explicitly permit using the materiel to add
    value. Most other FOSS licences allow for selling the licensed materiel, implicitly
    or explicitly.
  created: '2013-01-25 10:23:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So there's no list of Apache fonts? Compiling one would be one of the best
    things an expert on FOSS could do for type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-25 14:21:00'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "http://www.openfontlibrary.org/\r\n\r\nThe Open Font Library would seem to
    be a good clearinghouse for this sort of information. Unfortunately it doesn't
    have a decent list for Apache. Why people aren't contributing to this is a topic
    in itself."
  created: '2013-01-26 00:03:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed.\r\n\r\nMaybe the individuals who have the most to gain from an organized
    effort are the people that FOSS activists don't like... Specifically when it comes
    to Apache. Like Reynir, who recently did many massive text dumps here* - why is
    he suddenly so mum?\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/97575?page=3\r\n\r\nSo
    is openness only open to people who are open? If so, I think that's short-sighted,
    since it ignore the <em>peoples</em> (such as Armenians) who would have a lot
    to gain.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-26 01:22:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Like Reynir, who recently did many massive text dumps here* - why is
    he suddenly so mum?</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm missing something, but when I look
    at the longs lists provided by Reynir on \"that thread,\" *license* is included.
    Do you mean you don't want to be bothered searching the thread,  or that the information
    isn't available there? "
  created: '2013-01-26 01:38:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How many of the fonts in Reynir's mega-list are Apache? Zero.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Dan Gayle
      picture: 111595
    body: 'Given the sparsity of FOSS fonts, it''s no surprise, ecause the Apache
      license isn''t the most obvious license for fonts, and because even in the greater
      FOSS world Apache isn''t used often. '
    created: '2013-01-31 03:53:22'
  created: '2013-01-26 01:49:30'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hmm./ Apparently ASF is one acronym for Apache, maybe there are others? Anybody
    help, here?\r\n\r\nI did find this list\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/webfonts/attribution\r\n\r\nSearch
    for \"Apache\" -- there are some"
  created: '2013-01-26 02:32:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's very useful, Charles - thank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-26 06:21:49'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Naw, I just haven't done much work on the lists lately. Got other interests
    that need some time, too.\r\n\r\n[[http://googlefontdirectory.googlecode.com/hg/apache/]]
    -- Direct route to GoogleFonts' Mercurial base, Apache licence section."
  created: '2013-01-27 16:09:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There we are! Thank you.\r\nDo you think that's everything, or 90%, or?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-27 16:33:20'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Ain't got a flippin' idea. OFL and GPL with font embedding exception are by
    far the most popular choice. Celeb syndrome? (Famous because they're famous.)
    Possibly. Effin sleep phase unlocks... only thing I dislike about yule.
  created: '2013-01-27 17:03:02'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>So there's no list of Apache fonts? Compiling one would be one of the
    best things an expert on FOSS could do for type.</em>\r\n\r\nWould be an own-goal
    for libre fonts, though, and that's why most of the Apache fonts are moving to
    OFL :)"
  created: '2013-01-27 22:34:12'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>There is however a strong undercurrent of \"social justice\" in the libre
    movement (its main redeeming quality as far as I'm concerned)</em>\r\n\r\nRight.
    If you make a proprietary font for a minority script, that's working against the
    social justice aims of the libre movement. If a professional decides it's profitable
    (or at least not a total loss :-) to make a new libre font, that's really great.
    If they decide to make a new proprietary font, that doesn't diminish the libre
    font movement, just as new libre fonts don't diminish the proprietary font community.
    But to extend a libre font but keep the improvements proprietary diminishes the
    progress of the libre movement, I think. \r\n\r\nThe OFL protects libre fonts
    from this tragedy, which is why almost all type designers prefer it, and why the
    designers of the small number of Apache fonts asked to move to OFL.\r\n\r\n(I
    see i tags no longer work, thanks!)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "@abattis:\r\n<cite>But to extend a libre font but keep the improvements
      proprietary diminishes the progress of the libre movement, I think. </cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
      that would directly violate most open-source licenses, as they tend to resemble
      the GPL, which is specifically aimed at preventing that sort of thing."
    created: '2013-06-03 13:35:29'
  created: '2013-01-27 22:38:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess that depends on the core objective(s) of a given supporter of libre
    fonts - there's a whole spectrum of agendas crawling around in there. :-)  There
    is however a strong undercurrent of \"social justice\" in the libre movement (its
    main redeeming quality as far as I'm concerned) and if you consider that generally
    minority scripts enjoy much higher quality fonts when a professional decides it's
    profitable (or at least not a total loss :-) to make some, the Apache license
    actually has an advantage. For example not having to make a complete high-quality
    Latin companion is a huge deal to a designer of Armenian fonts.\r\n\r\nAbout \"moving\"
    from one licensing model to another: considering this is all \"open\", the previous
    incarnation can't go away, right? Or do I have to move quickly?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-27 22:46:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>If you make a proprietary font for a minority script, that's
    working against the social justice aims of the libre movement.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think so, because not having any (or very few) good fonts is more socially
    unjust than having (more) good proprietary ones. Remember, social justice is more
    about the reader than the designer; social justice says: the designer not wanting
    to give up money should not harm the reader.\r\n\r\nBTW the situation for minority
    scripts is inherently different than for Latin (even though it's still true that
    there can never be enough typestlyes).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the designers of the
    small number of Apache fonts asked to move to OFL.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhen they
    move, does the previous Apache version become illegal, or simply harder to find?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-27 22:55:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also, a type designer being paid does not necessarily make the results proprietary.
    I was paid to make Arasan, but it's given away for free; for a number of years
    it was a big positive force in the Armenian presence online. And you've heard
    of the Google fonts, right?  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-27 23:35:00'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>social justice says: the designer not wanting to give up money should
    not harm the reader</em>\r\n\r\nSocial justice says to me, the user of digital
    tools ought to have freedom to decide how the tools they use work. They use their
    tools to serve their users better. A proprietary tool may offer convenient features
    but the overall society is worse off due to its restrictions.\r\n\r\n<em>I was
    paid to make Arasan, but it's given away for free</em>\r\n\r\nBut was it libre?
    If its zero price isn't what makes it socially just or unjust, to me.\r\n\r\n<em>When
    they move, does the previous Apache version become illegal, or simply harder to
    find?</em>\r\n\r\nLegally, the latter - a libre license doesn't expire or terminate
    unless you breach the terms of the license - but the font designers wish that
    the fonts be treated as OFL ought to be respected, don't you think? :)"
  created: '2013-01-27 23:52:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>They use their tools to serve their users better.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    think this is the weak link in your logic. Users of open tools are not inherently
    more mindful of their users than users of proprietary tools; in fact their general
    resistance to compensating quality often makes things worse for their users, while
    making themselves richer. I've said this before: many open-source advocates -like
    yourself- are altruistic; most of them however -like the ones who don't bother
    engaging in such discussions- are simply taking advantage. This is the big unspoken
    sad reality in the open-source scene.\r\n\r\nBut let me back up and offer another
    angle, to better explain what I was previously saying: the current (and long-standing)
    situation with Armenian fonts is not socially just to Armenian end-users - there
    are very few typefaces we can be proud of. This is certainly not because there's
    a lack of respect for the Armenian script or a lack of talent in type design.
    It's because of a lack of profitability. Apache helps us, as a people. And I posit
    that the situation is similar with most minority scripts. Apache is in effect
    the best gift to them; the more restrictive licenses severely limit the development
    of high-quality fonts because there are very few people who will donate big chunks
    of their lives like that. I think Westerners -because they don't have to work
    as hard to survive- generally have trouble relating to this seemingly selfish
    -but in reality very communal, although not global- approach to spending one's
    time/resources.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>But was it libre?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt has
    a minimal EULA that prohibits resale... but there's no talk of modification, which
    is intentional. I don't believe a no-mod clause is usually ethical, so there's
    no de jure restriction against somebody selling a modified Arasan. In practice
    however Arasan has not been redistributed/resold in a modified version (AFAIK)
    because most of its value comes from the embedded bitmaps, which is technically
    relatively tricky to do (although the tools are free); plus unlike a Latin font
    there aren't many niceties one can add anyway.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>but the font
    designers wish that the fonts be treated as OFL ought to be respected, don't you
    think?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot necessarily. I can feel entirely comfortable classing
    the needs of my people above the needs of one guy, especially if I feel he's failing
    to grasp the sociopolitical damage of moving away from Apache. It's not about
    him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-28 05:49:52'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: As I recall, licence changes are not usually retroactive. Also, you could
    always ask the original author if (s)he's OK with you forking an Apache-licensed
    branch off whatever thang you like.
  created: '2013-01-28 13:29:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Question, mostly to Dave, but not only:\r\nWhen did the Apache license start
    becoming sort of persona non grata? I ask because I did a search on \"Apache\"
    in my email and saw a message I'd forgotten about that surprised me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-29 06:24:08'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "My views on this didn't change, but I note that GWF offers designers a choice
    of Apache or OFL, so you may have email from me offering you that choice :) \r\n\r\nThe
    philosophical difference between Apache and OFL is really the difference between
    BSD and GNU, which you can read about extensively elsewhere :)\r\n\r\n<em>They
    use their tools to serve their users better. / I think this is the weak link in
    your logic.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm operating on a longer time scale than everyone else;
    I think in terms of decades. "
  created: '2013-01-30 15:20:42'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<blockquote>a libre license doesn't expire or terminate unless you breach
    the terms of the license - but the font designers wish that the fonts be treated
    as OFL ought to be respected, don't you think? :)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHey, the
    font designers released their stuff under the Apache licence, so that once was
    their wish too.\r\n\r\nI have a feeling that there are lots of type designers
    who later regret a contract they signed or a licence they gave out to anyone.
    But hey, so what. Everybody should consider the consequences of their action at
    the right time. E.g. I remember a tweet from some Google web font designer who
    wasn't pleased his font now was available in Google docs, or perhaps you heard
    Erik Spiekermann mention he can't get out of his contract for ITC Officina.\r\n\r\nBTW
    <a href=\"http://www.kutilek.de/tmp/apachefonts.zip\">here's a ZIP file</a> of
    all the fonts that Google offers right now under the Apache licence. There are
    some nice fonts in it, like Open Sans or the Droid fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd what T\xE9
    said. My guess would be that at least some open source font designers may be open
    to offer their fonts under a different \u2013 even propietary \u2013 licence when
    you ask them nicely or make them a monetary offer."
  created: '2013-01-30 15:55:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dave, the reason I asked about the timing is that most Apache fonts are relatively
    old, supporting your view that designers no longer like it. The big exception
    Roboto. I wonder why (not a rhetorical question).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>you may have
    email from me offering you that choice</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTouch\xE9!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    think in terms of decades.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm Armenian - a decade is a morning
    stretch.  :-)\r\n\r\nJens, well expressed.\r\nRegret is a very educational emotion.\r\n\r\nAnd
    thank you so much for that zip!\r\nAre there many more non-Google Apache fonts?
    BTW currently I would like to find all the monospaced Apache fonts.\r\n\r\nBut
    about getting a designer to offer a more strict license:\r\n- If it's exactly
    the same font as is available more freely, would that really work out? Considering
    -as we seem to agree- that this stuff is not retroactive (more below).\r\n- If
    the more free license does not allow something, is the original designer nonetheless
    allowed to over-ride that? That would actually be an incentive to release an OFL
    font: get people hooked on your design, then make money on commissioned mods.\r\n\r\nTwo
    more questions for Dave:\r\n- If the designer of a free/libre font changes his
    mind, do you think people should respect that decision and stop using the free/libre
    version?\r\n- Can you cite actual cases of an Apache font being re-released under
    a stricter license?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-30 17:56:51'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wait, I just realized that Abattis is Dave Crossland. All this time, and
    I never knew? Hi Dave. \r\n\r\nWith regards to re-licensing, you can always go
    more free, but you cannot go less free. Once you've licensed something as BSD,
    for instance, you can't revoke that and make it GPL. You can fork it, or dual
    license it, or stop distributing it, but you cannot prevent someone else from
    redistributing or modifying their copy under the original license.\r\n\r\nI don't
    know the specifics of the Apache license, but with MIT/BSD, you're explicitly
    allowed to re-license it however you want, provided you keep the original copyright
    stuff intact, but that only covers whatever copy you are distributing, not the
    originals.\r\n\r\nThis licensing stuff sucks."
  created: '2013-01-31 04:08:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Also, Hrant, you can totally do what you want to do with Bitstream Vera Sans
    Mono.\r\n\r\nFrom the License:\r\n\"Permission is hereby granted, free of charge,
    to any person obtaining a copy of the fonts accompanying this license (\u201CFonts\u201D)
    and associated documentation files (the \u201CFont Software\u201D), to reproduce
    and distribute the Font Software, including without limitation the rights to use,
    copy, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Font Software, and
    to permit persons to whom the Font Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions: \"\r\n\r\nConditions being, rename it and keep the original
    copyright info intact.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-31 04:14:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "On license changes, generally, remember\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/additional_licenses.html\r\n\r\nI
    sure am glad that most of our Monotype/Linotype fonts were licensed long ago,
    under the (old) Adobe license. I'd hate to have to stand up in court & explain
    why I fixed the gefuched things in many of those fonts..."
  created: '2013-01-31 04:19:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>you cannot go less free.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell, maybe you
    can go less free sometimes. What I mean is: sure, you can't stop people from hunting
    down and using the more free license from before you changed your mind, but you
    can reduce the number of places the more free license version is available, in
    favor of more places the less free license version is. You can also use guilt
    tripping (like Dave was trying :-) to reduce how often the more free license is
    actually... consummated.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>you can totally do what you want to
    do with Bitstream Vera Sans Mono.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAre you sure?\r\nDo you
    think the first FAQ answer here\r\nhttp://www-old.gnome.org/fonts/#Final_Bitstream_Vera_Fonts\r\nis
    some sort of trickery?\r\n\r\nAlso, let's get a bit down-to-earth here: this\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Freedom_Law_Center\r\nseems
    to be the only entity that sues people who violate an \"open\"-flavor font license,
    and their last action was over three years ago. Have people been behaving? That
    would be a first... Or maybe the SFLC ran out of cash.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-31 05:00:25'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Hrant, it isnt 'more free' since it leads to more non-free fonts. No? :)
  created: '2013-01-31 20:03:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like anything else, that depends on the perspective. From the perspective
    of graphic designers (and their clients) who think freedom comes from saving money,
    sure. But from the perspective of a type designer who thinks freedom comes from
    <em>making</em> money, a more \"opportunistic\" license (like Apache) is great.
    And from the perspective of a <em>reader</em> of a minority script who wants to
    be free of mediocre fonts, a type designer taking advantage of an opportunistic
    license is great. Which brings me to a central issue: freedom isn't just about
    how many fonts you have and how little they cost you, it's also about quality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-01 04:56:39'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>Hey, the font designers released their stuff under the Apache licence,
    so that once was their wish too.</em>\r\n\r\nYou may recall that a long time ago
    GWF offered the ability to donate money to font designers. The OFL forbids 'selling
    the font by itself' and so I arranged a deal with a few designers to use Apache
    (the only other license (modulo the UFL for Ubuntu fonts which is an anomaly)
    so that GWF could have the option to sell their fonts as fonts; it would probably
    been a 'pay what you wish before downloading' thing. \r\n\r\nThat's experiment
    is now long gone, so the designers want to switch to OFL. \r\n\r\n<em>I have a
    feeling that there are lots of type designers who later regret a contract they
    signed or a licence they gave out to anyone. But hey, so what. Everybody should
    consider the consequences of their action at the right time.</em> \r\n\r\nIndeed.
    ;)\r\n\r\n<em>E.g. I remember a tweet from some Google web font designer who wasn't
    pleased his font now was available in Google docs,</em>\r\n\r\nHmm, I seem to
    have missed that one. I know Toshi Omagari tweeted surprise about Tangerine appearing
    in Adobe Edge Web Fonts, but I explained things and he was happy. \r\n\r\n<em>
    or perhaps you heard Erik Spiekermann mention he can't get out of his contract
    for ITC Officina.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, I'm not familiar with this. Whats the story?
    :)\r\n\r\n<em>most Apache fonts are relatively old, supporting your view that
    designers no longer like it.</em>\r\n\r\nThey always preferred OFL.\r\n\r\n<em>
    The big exception Roboto. I wonder why (not a rhetorical question).</em>\r\n\r\nEverything
    in AOSP is Apache, modulo the Linux kernel which is an anomaly. \r\n\r\n<em>Are
    there many more non-Google Apache fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://code.google.com/p/noto
    is coming along.\r\n\r\n<em>If the more free license does not allow something,
    is the original designer nonetheless allowed to over-ride that? That would actually
    be an incentive to release an OFL font: get people hooked on your design, then
    make money on commissioned mods.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, the original designer OWNS the
    rights and so can distribute copies under lots of different licenses. If you receive
    a copy, you are bound by the terms under which you received it; but those terms
    don't bind the copyright holder. \r\n\r\nAnd yes, some designers who release OFL
    fonts are doing so as 'loss leaders' for proprietary versions of the same fonts
    which are more complete - Ale Paul, for example - but Sorkin Type Co is running
    a better model I think; they are making the WEB fonts libre, and PRINT versions
    proprietary, so that the two are actually separate but intwined projects. That
    way, there isn't tension between community, libre progress and proprietary development.
    \r\n\r\n<em>If the designer of a free/libre font changes his mind, do you think
    people should respect that decision and stop using the free/libre version?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    want people to participate in libre culture because they genuinely think its a
    good idea. It seems a little mean to not respect their wishes.\r\n\r\n<em>Can
    you cite actual cases of an Apache font being re-released under a stricter license?</em>\r\n\r\nNo.
    I can cite one case of an experienced type designer that wanted to rework a libre
    font, who ended up starting from scratch so the original license didn't apply
    anyway : http://www.anatoletype.net/fonts/dejarip\r\n\r\n<em>Wait, I just realized
    that Abattis is Dave Crossland. All this time, and I never knew? Hi Dave.</em>\r\n\r\nHaha!
    Hi Dan :-)\r\n\r\n<em>With regards to re-licensing, you can always go more free,
    but you cannot go less free. Once you've licensed something as BSD, for instance,
    you can't revoke that and make it GPL.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm quite sure you can take
    a BSD work as a piece of a larger work and make that overall work GPL, or proprietary.\r\n\r\n<em>You
    can fork it, or dual license it, or stop distributing it, but you cannot prevent
    someone else from redistributing or modifying their copy under the original license.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    their copy, no, but another copy they get from you.\r\n\r\n<em>I don't know the
    specifics of the Apache license, but with MIT/BSD, you're explicitly allowed to
    re-license it however you want</em>\r\n\r\nKinda. You can't 'relicense' it. You
    can distribute it under that license, which allows distributing it with additional
    restrictions. The GPL is more free because users can't be put under additional
    restrictions.\r\n\r\n<em>This licensing stuff sucks.</em>\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n<em>Also,
    let's get a bit down-to-earth here: this\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Freedom_Law_Center\r\nseems
    to be the only entity that sues people who violate an \"open\"-flavor font license,</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    FSF have been doing this for decades, and Haralde Welte has been doing his own
    GPL activism at http://gpl-violations.org \r\n\r\nYou don't hear about this much
    because the FSF's aim is software freedom through GPL compliance, not profits
    from lawsuits, so they quietly behind the scenes say, you could be sued for millions
    of dollars of copyright infringement, but we just want you to comply with the
    license which costs nothing. So they do that, instead. \r\n\r\n<em>their last
    action was over three years ago. Have people been behaving? That would be a first...
    Or maybe the SFLC ran out of cash.</em>\r\n\r\nBy the look of it the last time
    I dropped by their office on Broadway in Manhatten, SFLC is financially buoyant.
    Think quiet settlements."
  created: '2013-02-01 16:47:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dave, thanks for the complete reply.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the original designer
    OWNS the rights and so can distribute copies under lots of different licenses.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGood
    to know.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It seems a little mean to not respect their wishes.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    agree it can be too opportunistic sometimes. But sometimes the OFL license is
    \"mean\" compared to the Apache one, for example when it reduces the quantity
    of quality fonts for a minority script. Considering the issue immediately above,
    that might often constitute locking out others with more time and/or ability to
    help a minority script just so the original designer can make more money. To me
    the needs of communities are more important than the desires of an individual.
    And these sorts of sentiments should in fact be integral to the spirit of open
    software, even though it might seem counter-intuitive sometimes (and sometimes
    it will in fact backfire).\r\n\r\n<blockquote><em>Can you cite actual cases of
    an Apache font being re-released under a stricter license?</em>\r\n\r\nNo.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis*
    does cast some doubt on your view that virtually all designers no longer like
    Apache. Certainly the near-hopelessness of enforcing a stricter license is a damper,
    but if people do expect their wishes to be respected (which is the first step
    to actually getting them respected :-) then the least they can do is revise the
    official position.\r\n\r\n* Not to mention the still-standing elephant in the
    room, Roboto.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Think quiet settlements.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSomebody
    should work on making <em>that</em> more open. :->  Seriously, there's no greater
    deterrent than seeing other people punished for something you're considering doing.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe
    more I think about it, the more I believe Apache is a more magnanimous license.
    Remember, you don't <em>have</em> to charge money for a derivative work, and there
    will always be some people who don't; but if -directly- making money is the only
    way a given individual would feel <em>free</em> taking part in open software,
    that ends up helping others too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-01 17:16:51'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>if -directly- making money is the only way a given individual would feel
    free taking part in open software, that ends up helping others too.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have difficultly making sense out of this. In libre culture, making money is fine,
    selling copies is fine, but proprietary licensing is not fine. You seem to assert
    you can't make money with libre fonts. This isn't true."
  created: '2013-02-10 00:21:57'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>if the only way a given person can feel free enough to <strong>make a
    libre font</strong> is to make money on-the-spot (specifically, by selling a modified
    Apache font)</em>\r\n\r\nWell, is that modified Apache font a libre font or is
    it not?"
  created: '2013-02-10 00:43:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's certainly possible to make money with libre fonts. In fact as I recently
    opined, eventually making money is the <em>only</em> reason some people make libre
    fonts!  :-/\r\n\r\nI wouldn't consider \"proprietary licensing\" an Evil thing
    of itself - it's just another factor. Anything can make sense sometimes. To me
    it's all about intentions.\r\n\r\nMy point was that if the only way a given person
    can feel free enough to make a given font is to make money on-the-spot (specifically,
    by selling a modified Apache font) and that ends up helping people who need need
    help* (hopefully because that was in fact one of** his intentions) then that's
    social justice right there.\r\n\r\n* Like <em>readers</em> of a minority script-
    which to me are worth more than designers dealing with a minority script.\r\n\r\n**
    There's never only one, plus making money isn't necessarily the biggest one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-10 01:19:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry - replace \"libre\" with \"given\". (I've fixed my previous post.)\r\n\r\nAnd
    to further elaborate: basically it's socially just when the end-users (readers)
    benefit via the tool user (graphic designer) paying money instead of the tool
    maker (type designer) losing time.\r\n\r\nI think we need both OFL and Apache.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-10 01:28:28'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "I'm still confused about your position Hrant :) You say,\r\n\r\n<em>it's
    socially just when the end-users (readers) benefit via the tool user (graphic
    designer) paying money instead of the tool maker (type designer) losing time.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have refuted your assertion that libre fonts require their makers to spent unpaid
    time on them, and you agreed -\r\n\r\n<em>It's certainly possible to make money
    with libre fonts</em>\r\n\r\n- so, is it MORE socially just when the end-users
    (readers) benefit when the tool user (graphic designer) has equitable relationship
    with the tool maker (type designer) and the tool maker still got paid for their
    time?"
  created: '2013-02-10 15:14:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually agree with all that - it's important to realize that it's not
    so clear-cut (although I do maintain that there <em>is</em> at least some correlation
    between quality and proprietariness). My focus here is on defending Apache: it
    <em>can</em> lead to more social justice, and OFL <em>can</em> restrict social
    justice (by de facto excluding people who can help end-users). So it's good to
    have both.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-10 16:20:44'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: If it is MORE socially just when the end-users (readers) benefit when the
    tool user (graphic designer) has equitable relationship with the tool maker (type
    designer) and the tool maker still got paid for their time, then I think its good
    to reach for that :)
  created: '2013-02-11 18:19:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Agreed.\r\n\r\nI just don't like seeing tool users take advantage of tool
    makers, especially when saving/making money -and not social justice- is what they're
    really after.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-11 19:19:01'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Doesn't the OFL help with that? :)
  created: '2013-02-13 22:51:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, but in some cases (like my case :-) Apache helps more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-13 23:57:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just read the two comments from January here: http://code.google.com/p/noto/wiki/FontList\r\n\r\nDave,
    you'd previously said that virtually all designers are moving away from Apache
    and to OFL (or other resale-restrictive licenses). But why would \"big daddy\"
    Google switch Arimo, Cousine, and Tinos* from OFL to Apache? Coupled with Droid,
    Open Sans, and the telling recent Roboto and Noto being Apache, is it fair to
    say that Google itself prefers Apache?\r\n\r\n* BTW who designed those?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-01 17:57:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The notable issue with OFL is the renaming clause. It interacts very badly
    with the realities of web fonts. Of course, OFL-licensed fonts don't have to use
    the reserved-name scheme, but they usually do.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2013-04-01 20:40:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "- If they don't use the reserved-name scheme, are they still officially OFL?\r\n-
    Why do people usually opt to interact very badly with the realities of web fonts?\r\n-
    Does Apache not have any naming issues?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-01 20:50:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The reserved name is an optional part of OFL.\r\n\r\nPeople use it because
    they don't want wacky derivatives to come out with the same name, and they don't
    necessarily understand or care that a web font system (including Google's) must
    modify the font in a variety of ways, including subsetting. Not to mention that
    plenty of OFL fonts predate widespread use of web fonts. Some web font vendors
    chose to ignore any apparent issue and just use the OFL-licensed fonts anyway.\r\n\r\nNot
    being really designed for fonts, Apache license does not have a renaming clause.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2013-04-01 22:14:54'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "In my particular case, I always use the reserved font name option.\r\nAnd
    I have given explicit permission to Google to make changes/extensions/improvements/subsetting/etc..
    and release under the same name."
  created: '2013-04-01 23:03:00'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>- If they don't use the reserved-name scheme, are they still officially
    OFL?</em>\r\n\r\nYes\r\n\r\n<em>- Why do people usually opt to interact very badly
    with the realities of web fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nThey don't think things through.
    \r\n\r\n<em>- Does Apache not have any naming issues?</em>\r\n\r\nThis depends
    on your perspective. If you want name control, Apache has naming issues because
    it doesn't have a RFN-like option. If you do not want name control, Apache has
    naming issues because it doesn't include trademark usage, so if the font name
    is trademarked, you'll need a separate agreement to use the trademark. "
  created: '2013-06-03 03:28:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No two people see any \"movement\" the same way, and it's not healthy to
    try to force/trick people to conform to one's own particular vision. To repeat:
    if being able to sell a modified libre font is the only way some people can justify
    making that thing, and thus help society by providing something of value which
    would otherwise not exist, that is social justice. Nobody is forced to buy the
    thing; anybody can get a free one if it exists (and if it doesn't exist, there's
    often a good reason).\r\n\r\nThe only people who benefit from preventing money-making
    from modified libre fonts (and not in all ways, mind you, since they're part of
    society/culture too) are graphic designers -and their clients- who refuse to pay
    for fonts. Pardon me while I don't mind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-03 17:11:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> But to extend a libre font but keep the improvements proprietary diminishes
    the progress of the libre movement, I think.\r\n\r\nI agree. However, I would
    argue that the modifications done automatically by web font services are not improvements.
    Occasionally there will be rehinting, and that would be done specifically as an
    improvement. But it is not standard for most of them/us.\r\n\r\n(Funny, the original
    text is no longer in the thread. I suspect Abattis edited the blurb that Quadibloc
    was responding to, probably to clarify. I have no disagreement with the edited
    version.)"
  created: '2013-06-03 17:24:59'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>and thus help society by providing something of value which would otherwise
    not exist, that is social justice</em>\r\n\r\nWhile the something has utility
    value and that helps society, since it tramples the freedom of its users, it harms
    society. Depending on one's personal order of values, one may conclude social
    justice is being increased or decreased; and we seem to order our values differently.
    :-)"
  created: '2013-06-16 18:13:14'
- author:
    name: RyanClarke
    picture: 126725
  body: "i don't think so\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.farewellpetkit.com\">Pet caskets</a>"
  created: '2013-07-04 09:03:38'
- author:
    name: JohnWayne
  body: 'no'
  created: '2013-07-06 13:44:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just over a year ago I asked: \"Can you cite actual cases of an Apache font
    being re-released under a stricter license?\"\r\n\r\nWell, there's one now: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fira_Sans\r\nBut
    luckily the old Apache version is still around... https://github.com/jenskutilek/free-fonts\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-06 06:55:24'
date: '2013-01-23 20:46:51'
node_type: forum
title: Can I use Roboto font for print?

---
