---
author:
  name: treacyfaces
body: Well, I couldn&#39;t resist. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s from our largest local newspaper.
  <BR> <BR>Friday, Aug 22, 2003 <BR> <BR>Wherever you look, someone
comments:
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Tell me about it. I noticed that a whole damn lot of  <BR>native English speakers
    frequently make mistakes  <BR>against its use, and it&#39;s quite silly a Dutch/French-
    <BR>speaking guy like me trips over these typos. &#40;I hate  <BR>that, it even
    makes me stop reading on certain  <BR>occasions.&#41; <BR> <BR>Then again, I make
    loads of other mistakes and my  <BR>use of the English language is often quite...
    eh...  <BR>let&#39;s call it &#34;inventive&#34;. So who am I to judge? <BR> <BR>Good
    article BTW. THX for the link, Mr. Treacy.
  created: '2003-08-25 09:45:00'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Yves, <BR> <BR>You&#39;re welcome.  <BR> <BR>It&#39;s interesting: When I
    thought to post the link, it was because seemed a good piece to share with English
    users in the US &#40;and perhaps English-speaking areas of Canada and the UK&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>I hadn&#39;t thought until you mentioned it, that it might also benefit
    those working with English elsewhere - like Belgium - where it must be especially
    confusing. <BR> <BR>You might call English &#34;inventovative&#34;. <BR> <BR>:-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>And highly possessive. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-25 23:43:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'See also: <a href="http://www.angryflower.com/bobsqu.gif">Bob the Angry Flower&#39;s
    Guide to the Apostrophe, You Idiots</a>'
  created: '2003-08-26 00:19:30'
- author:
    name: matt_c
    picture: 110148
  body: David Crystal was on BBC radio last week talking about the decline of the
    correct use of the apostrophe...
  created: '2003-08-26 10:33:55'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>the decline of the correct use of the apostrophe...</i> <BR> <BR>This would
    suggest that it was used correctly at some stage. When was that, I wonder? <BR>
    <BR>Matha
  created: '2003-09-14 00:55:18'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: John, <BR> <BR>Does Bob the Angry Flower do grammar too? <BR>I&#39;m in serious
    need. <BR> <BR>M.
  created: '2003-09-14 00:59:31'
date: '2003-08-24 03:42:23'
title: Wherever you look, someone
...
