---
author:
  name: pnkimball
  picture: 110524
body: ' I&#39;m having a great deal of difficulty pasting characters created in Illustrator
  into this version of Fontographer. No matter what I try they always become background
  images, not editable shapes. Does anyone know what&#39;s going on here, or if ther
  is anything I can do to fix this? Thanks for your suggestions. '
comments:
- author:
    name: gregorycadars
  body: ' The only thing I know about this: you have to use illustrator 8.0 version
    &#40;or older&#41; to do that... <BR>Greg. '
  created: '2002-06-10 17:27:07'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: ' I have the same problem, Paul. What you have to do is keep trying, and every
    time you manage to paste a character, save immediately. Sometimes you can&#39;t
    paste once to save your life, sometimes you can paste in A-Z a-z without any difficulty.
    Don&#39;t know why. I do know that it&#39;s manageable if you&#39;re persistant.
    <BR> <BR>I have fontographer 4.1.2 and illustrator 8.0.1. '
  created: '2002-06-10 19:42:59'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: John and Paul - Ono, don&#39;t torture yourselves. <BR>use Illustrator 6.
    It beats all.  <BR>Still haven&#39;t heard of anyone having consistent results
    in Ill. 8, 9 or 10. <BR> <BR>Also, hold down the option key when you copy in Illustrator.
    <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t forget to read Chank&#39;s tutorial if you&#39;re just starting
    out or if you&#39;re just having a hard day&#39;s night. <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.chank.com/howto/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.chank.com/howto/</A> <BR> <BR> <BR>ringo
  created: '2002-06-10 20:07:48'
- author:
    name: sevenfingers
  body: ' I usually export chunks of letters &#40;from 5 to ten&#41;to eps files,
    and import in fontographer. I then cut and paste in FG. It&#39;s quite fast, quicker
    than trying to get copy/paste from illustrator to work. '
  created: '2002-06-10 21:32:39'
- author:
    name: pnkimball
    picture: 110524
  body: ' Sounds good, Richard, but the only Import option I have in this old version
    of FOG is Import Kerning. I guess I may have to upgrade... '
  created: '2002-06-10 21:52:32'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: ' Paul- <BR>When Richard says he&#39;s importing characters <BR>in FOG after
    pasting he&#39;s doing just that -  <BR>pasting. You can do the same FOG 3.5.
    <BR>I would say keep 3.5. I have all 3 &#40;FOG 3.5, 4.1 <BR>and FontLab 3&#41;
    and still really like the  <BR>bare bones nature of 3.5. <BR> <BR>The pasting
    problem is Illustrator. <BR>I&#39;m guessing you are using 9 or above <BR>which
    creates the problem you describe. <BR>After 8, Adobe changed the structure <BR>of
    the clipboard thus making pasting <BR>into certain programs difficult. <BR>Use
    8 or below. I think 7 might even <BR>have some problems. '
  created: '2002-06-13 02:23:15'
- author:
    name: pnkimball
    picture: 110524
  body: ' Thanks everybody. I just picked up a copy of Illustrator 6 at Ebay for 13
    bucks and I&#39;m really hoping this will solve the problem. I&#39;ll update this
    forum as soon as I can... '
  created: '2002-06-14 16:25:02'
- author:
    name: pnkimball
    picture: 110524
  body: ' Aaargh.  <BR> <BR>OK, so I go into Illustrator 6, select my character, and
    use the pull-down menu &#34;Copy&#34; with option key held down &#40;a la Chank&#39;s
    advice&#41;. Then I go to Fontographer and, holding down the option key, pull-down
    &#34;Paste&#34;. Result? <BR> <BR>A greyed-out PostScript logo with the text &#34;Adobe
    Illustrator Artwork, one object on one layer&#34; written below it appears in
    the window. If I don&#39;t hold down option it doesn&#39;t size it correctly,
    so at least SOMETHING is working, but what the ???!!??! '
  created: '2002-06-19 02:00:58'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: ' Paul- <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t have experience with 6 but can&#39;t  <BR>understand
    why it wouldn&#39;t work. <BR> <BR>Try skipping the option key when pasting. <BR>I
    just copy when in Illustrator and then <BR>paste when in FOG. '
  created: '2002-06-19 14:09:32'
date: '2002-06-10 16:50:37'
title: Fontographer 3.5.1 paste question
...
