---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' K, it&#39;s been awhile but I&#39;m stuck. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m using fontographer
  and I can&#39;t figure out how to paste my outlines into fontographer so I can edit
  them.  <BR> <BR>I followed the tutorial on Chank&#39;s site, holding down the option
  key while using the pulldown menus to copy. But when I paste into Fontographer it&#39;s
  still gray and not editable outlines. <BR> <BR>Does Fontographer work with Illustrator
  9? I even tried copying from freehand 8 but get the same problem. You&#39;d think
  freehand would work with fontographer... Is Macromedia just full of slackers? <BR>
  <BR>Oh yeah, and I&#39;m on a Mac. Help! &#40;And happy new year too!&#41; '
comments:
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Barry--If any fontmakers have made this work w/ Illus. 9, please let rest
    of the world know. But as far as I can tell, you gotta use an older version of
    Illus. I use Illus. 6. Works like a charm. <BR> <BR>ciao baby. <BR> <BR>angel '
  created: '2002-01-01 02:31:30'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Can&#39;t one just save the Illustrator file as an EPS, and import the EPS
    into Fontographer? <BR> <BR>Admittedly, I rarely &#40;if ever&#41; built my glyphs
    in Illustrator, so I don&#39;t know if this works or not. I&#39;ve found it easier
    to just draw the forms in Fontographer itself. '
  created: '2002-01-01 03:13:57'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Thanks Angel, luckily I have an Illustrator 6 CD...  I&#39;ll try it. <BR>
    <BR>David, I&#39;ve tried everything... saving it out of Illustrator as an Illustrator
    4 EPS file and have still had no luck. What drives me crazy is that not these
    two Macromedia products dont&#39; seem to play well together. <BR> <BR>Ciao '
  created: '2002-01-02 02:16:38'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' I meant fontographer and freehand... '
  created: '2002-01-02 02:22:02'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' I still use Illustrator 6.0, so it sounds as if this might just be a glitch
    with the newer versions of Illustrator. <BR> <BR>A couple of things to try....
    <BR>&#40;Chances are you may have tried these already. If these don&#39;t work,
    I don&#39;t even have a guess as to what is wrong... :/ &#41; <BR> <BR>1. Save
    your drawing as an EPS. &#40;Downsaving to Illustrator EPS version 5 or lower
    may improve your chance of success, rather than using the default option of the
    most current version of Illustrator or Freehand.&#41; Open the Fontographer font
    file. Select the glyph cell into which you wish to import the EPS drawing. On
    my version of Fontographer &#40;4.0.4 for Macintosh&#41;, there&#39;s an option
    under the FILE menu to IMPORT an EPS. Find the EPS file you just saved, and select
    it. This should work. <BR> <BR>But if it doesn&#39;t, try this instead.... <BR>
    <BR>2. Open your EPS drawing in Illustrator. Keeping Illustrator open, open the
    Fontographer font file. Back in Illustrator, select the entire drawing that you
    wish to copy to Fontographer, and do an old fashioned cut-and-paste COPY &#40;Command-C&#41;.
    Go back into your Fontographer font file and select the glyph cell that you wish
    to copy to. PASTE it in using &#40;Command-V&#41;. This should also work. <BR>
    <BR>Both of these methods should work whether you actually open the glyph cell
    or whether you just select it. <BR> <BR>Best of luck. Let us know if it&#39;s
    still not working. :/ If all else fails, perhaps a phone call or e-mail to Adobe
    would be helpful. <BR> <BR>David '
  created: '2002-01-02 05:05:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' EPS/1.1 export from any Illustrator should work. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-01-02 07:22:04'
date: '2002-01-01 01:21:37'
title: Which software do you use?
...
