---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: 'Hi, <BR> <BR>I just bought FontLab 4.6, and I&#39;d like to know more info
  about Non-Latin design.  <BR> <BR>What software do I need to buy? e.g:  with English
  there&#39;s no problem. But with Arabic, Hebrew there&#39;s a problem. <BR> <BR>How
  do I know where to draw each letter? &#40;&#34;A&#34; - Arabic = &#34;A&#34; English
  cell; &#34;A&#34; - Hebrew = &#34;A&#34; English&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR>Thank You '
comments:
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: Try opening up an Opentype Unicode font like Arial in FontLab. You&#39;ll
    see that each language has its own glyph range, and you could use Arial as a template.
    With Unicode and Opentype fonts, there&#39;s no need to overlap letters from different
    scripts. <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-09-05 19:02:53'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: I&#39;m no &#34;non-latin guru&#34; &#40;although they do populate this board&#41;,
    but there seem to be a lot of folks using Davkawriter &#40;for Hebrew&#41; and
    Adobe InDesign ME &#40;Middle Eastern version&#41; for setting right-to-left scripts.
    Some of the discussion on <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/29/13499.html?1061608620"
    target="_blank"> this thread</a> might be of interest. You might also check out
    the <a href="http://www.unicode.org/charts/" target="_blank"> Unicode charts</a>
    online.
  created: '2003-09-05 19:29:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'You can design and build non-Latin typefaces in FontLab. You can define your
    own glyph sets using .enc files &#40;a plain text glyph list, stored in the FontLab/Encoding
    folder, that determines the cells you see in the FL Font Window when in Names
    mode -- see the FL manual more more information&#41;. I typically build a spreadsheet
    for complex script fonts, in which I keep track of glyph name, correct Unicode
    encoding &#40;note that not all glyphs will be encoded, only base &#39;default&#39;
    forms for each character&#41;, and any other information about individual glyphs
    &#40;including design notes, mapping for OpenType feature lookups, etc.&#41;,
    and make a .enc file from the list of glyph names in this spreadsheet. <BR> <BR>The
    only thing you can&#39;t do in FontLab is build OpenType Layout table data that
    includes anchor positioning, one-to-many substitutions and other lookup types
    not supported by the Adobe FDK code on which FontLab&#39;s OT support is based.
    So for making complex script fonts for Arabic, Hebrew, etc. you need to use <a
    href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/volt/default.htm">MS VOLT</a>
    &#40;Windows only, but runs under emulators on a Mac, I understand&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>I design my fonts and define all font properties etc. in FontLab, and then
    build my OT table data in VOLT. The VOLT user community site includes downloadable
    examples of Arabic and Devanagari fonts, and a sample Hebrew font will probably
    be available in the next few months. <BR> <BR>If you want a better understanding
    of the relationship of characters and glyphs in OpenType, and how complex scripts
    are processed by applications, see this article: <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/opentype/default.htm">Windows
    Glyph Processing</a>.'
  created: '2003-09-05 19:54:39'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: The only problem with VOLT, unless they changed it, is that you can only make/use
    Truetype Opentype fonts, not the postscript flavour.
  created: '2003-09-05 21:37:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Ah, I worked out a way around that limitation. The problem is that VOLT cannot
    &#42;display&#42; CFF &#40;PS&#41;outline data, because it uses its own internal
    rasteriser, and this only handles TrueType. However, you can open a CFF outline
    font in VOLT, you just can&#39;t do anything that requires displaying glyphs.
    So what you do is: <BR> <BR>1. Make a dummy TrueType font based on your CFF FontLab
    source &#40;note that if you are using GPOS features, you must ensure that the
    UPM value of the dummy font to matches that of the eventual CFF font&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>2. Open the dummy font in VOLT and build your OT Layout table data. Export
    this data as a VOLT project file. Save the dummy font in case you need to edit
    the OTL stuff later. <BR> <BR>3. Make your CFF OpenType font, being sure to keep
    exactly the same glyph order as in the dummy TT font. <BR> <BR>4. Open the CFF
    font in VOLT, <i>but do not open any VOLT windows except the main one.</i> Import
    the VOLT project exported from your dummy font. Compile and &#39;ship&#39; the
    font from VOLT. <BR> <BR>Hey presto! One CFF OT font with VOLTR-generated OTL
    tables. For a while I thought this would be more complicated than it is, and had
    Adam Twardoch write a Python script to copy tables between TT and CFF fonts, but
    recently I realised just how easy it is, in fact, just using VOLT.'
  created: '2003-09-06 00:31:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'One other note: there is a kind of attachment GPOS lookup type that uses
    TT outline points as anchors &#40;the advantage of this being that you can delta
    hint the position of the attachment points, which is more efficient than using
    device dependent adjustments in VOLT&#41;. This kind of lookup type is not supported
    in VOLT yet, but probably will be eventually. Obviously this lookup type only
    works with TT fonts, so you would avoid using it in VOLT data if you wanted to
    be able to output a CFF font.'
  created: '2003-09-06 00:35:00'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Damn, that&#39;s great to know.  There are a few fonts that I want to make
    opentype so I don&#39;t have to select the expert sets and such.  I&#39;ll have
    to give it a try.
  created: '2003-09-06 05:01:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Wasn&#39;t sure where best to mention this, so... <BR><a href="http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;rd=1&amp;item=6943359431"
    target="_blank">http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;rd=1&amp;item=6943359431</a>
    <BR>Less than 2.5 hours left. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2005-01-25 17:07:31'
date: '2003-09-05 16:40:10'
title: Non-Latin Design
...
