---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' go. '
comments:
- author:
    name: sevenfingers
  body: ' I was baffled by the ugliness of Helvetica at a young age, and decided to
    try my hands on a better typeface. '
  created: '2002-04-06 01:31:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' I&#39;ve liked to draw abstract shapes and render 3D objects ever since
    I was a kid, but I virtually stopped from the time I discovered computers &#40;age
    9, 1977&#41; to the time I realized that I&#39;m not good enough with the software
    and broke down and started drawing and scanning my letterforms &#40;about four
    years ago&#41;. As much as I&#39;m a digitboy, I really enjoy working with my
    hands. But I try not to let that enjoyment soil the &#42;typographic&#42; nature
    of my designs. <BR> <BR>In 1982 I got a Commodore64 - the first computer I had
    which allowed me to implement my own fonts - but in bitmaps. Encouraged partly
    by my brother, I made Armenian and Arabic fonts in 8x8 bitmaps - the latter of
    which I managed to sell to the Commodore dealer in Beirut. <BR> <BR>In the late
    80s I got an Amiga, and started making more sophisticated bitmap fonts, and thanks
    to a MacOS emulator I started making outline fonts in Fontographer. All this was
    non-Latin, btw. My first attempts were horrible - mostly because I was trying
    to work with a grid. Eventually I realized that letterforms are like little animals.
    About a year after starting to make &#34;commercial-grade&#34; &#40;but still
    not very good&#41; fonts, people wanted to buy them. Among other things, I made
    the first &#91;known&#93; Armenian fonts for video titling, and all the guys who
    needed to title Armenian wedding videos ran to me. <BR> <BR>For many years I didn&#39;t
    work on fonts very much, but then in the mid 90s I started really educating myself
    on the &#34;dark truths&#34; of the craft, and started delving into Latin type
    as well. Whereas I used to be a &#34;closed system&#34; for so long, I&#39;ve
    since been reading, dissecting and analyzing everything in sight ever since, and
    discussing type design left and right - processing the outside world, so to speak,
    and making it mine. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m also obsessed with understanding readability,
    and my faith in what I know fluctuates all the time - it&#39;s pretty scary stuff,
    sometimes - but understanding the &#34;subvisible&#34; is really thrilling. <BR>
    <BR>Since I have no formal education in &#91;typo&#93;graphic design, I have huge
    gaps in knowledge, especially in history - since they teach that a lot in schools.
    But they teach it too much. They &#42;teach&#42; too much. The biggest advantage
    I enjoy over most people who do have a formal education is that my mind is a lot
    more free to innovate. Creativity benefits greatly simply by not being aware of
    precedent, by not being told what to do, what one can/should do. But such creativity
    is much harder to control, and the need for subtlety takes on a huge relevance.
    When it comes to Latin type design, I&#39;m still very much getting the hang of
    this subtlety. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-06 08:40:49'
date: '2002-04-06 01:02:55'
title: How we got started - Hrant first ;&#41;
...
