---
author:
  name: mike gastin
  picture: 110273
body: OK - anyone ever see old text - like on a head stone - and there is a full stop/period
  after single words or fragments? <BR> <BR>Like &#34;Father.&#34; <BR> <BR>Also,
  I noticed it on the masthead of the Wall Street Journal. <BR> <BR>&#34;The Wall
  Street Journal.&#34; <BR> <BR>Does anyone know why the period was used this way?
  Was there a logic behind it? Was it just a convention? <BR> <BR>Am I just imagining
  things?
comments:
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Mike <BR> <BR>The use of the full stop was the convention for titling up until
    the end of the nineteenth century.  <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t know when the convention
    was abandoned entirely &#40;as common practice&#41; or when the first instance
    of abandonment began. <BR> <BR>The rationale behind it is fairly commonsensical.
    Most titling was in sentence form. It may have taken a bit of a conceptual leap
    to have abondoned the convention. <BR> <BR>Gerald <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-09-13 22:24:25'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: 'The current style sheet of the <i><b>Newry Democrat</b></i> imposes full
    stops at the end of all titles and captions. A friend of mine worked for them
    for a few years and to this day has a mania for putting full stops all over the
    place in everything he writes. <BR> <BR>Their online version doesn&#39;t reflect
    this, though: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.newrydemocrat.com/" target="_blank">http://www.newrydemocrat.com/</a>
    <BR> <BR>Matha'
  created: '2003-09-14 01:10:11'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Thanks Gerald &amp; Matha. <BR> <BR>I guess cultural perspective is everything.
  created: '2003-09-16 14:14:04'
- body: This is something that I&#39;ve noticed
  created: '2003-09-17 19:01:05'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'An aside, hopefully related enough: <BR> <BR>Advertising copywriting and
    creative direction has been making use of the full stop fairly regularly since
    the late 1960s. <BR> <BR>Probably as an outgrowth of interest in the poster as
    advertising, in ten decades or so, preceeding. <BR> <BR>The school of thought
    that supports it looks at a typical marketing environment &#40;even a magazine
    ad&#41; as a &#39;billboard&#39;, of sorts. Or, as a &#39;bumper sticker&#39;.
    <BR> <BR>In either case, it is incumbent on the writer &#43; art director to communicate
    rapidly. <BR> <BR>Some look at the style as the most rapid form available. The
    period seems to some to add &#39;immediacy&#39; or &#39;urgency&#39; to the message.
    <BR> <BR>It&#39;s quite easy to find oneself in a battle royal with a copywriter
    who despises periods at the end of incomplete sentences used as headlines or subheads.
    <BR> <BR>I actually have always favored the full stop approach, because it does
    add visual interest and immediacy, when handled properly. <BR> <BR>I, too, enjoy
    those very old grave markers. Quite a lot of the work both in the lettering and
    the surrounding stonework, is breathtaking. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-09-18 03:02:53'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '[ This thread moved to <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4100/4100.html">Design</a>
    ]'
  created: '2003-09-19 18:37:00'
date: '2003-09-12 20:15:20'
title: Old School Full Stop
...
