---
author:
  name: rburke
  picture: 110530
body: ' Gregory- <BR>Check out the latest edition of Print Magazine. <BR>There is
  an entire article on the subject. '
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: There&#39;s an entire <A HREF="http://joeclark.org/access/captioning/" TARGET="_top">man</A>
    on the subject.
  created: '2002-10-01 23:49:24'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: ' My wife grew up with a deaf father, so we always have captioning on in my
    house. We barely notice it anymore. <BR> <BR>Joe Clark&#39;s right though--- all
    sorts of typographic atrocities can be found. '
  created: '2002-10-02 01:47:38'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: ' As a swede, growing up with subtitles both on TV and on film, I actually
    never thought about the type used before. <BR> <BR>&#34;What should be expressly
    forbidden is the use of any typeface ten years ofage or older designed for print:
    No Univers, no Helvetica,...&#34; <BR> <BR>Well, I think it&#39;s one of those
    two used in this country..or ? Any swede out there who knows? <BR> <BR>I guess
    it&#39;s true sometimes what Emigre says &#34;it&#39;s the reader&#39;s familiarity
    with a face that account for it&#39;s legibility&#34; <BR> <BR>A serif would never
    work for me. '
  created: '2002-10-02 14:48:52'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: I really liked the subtitles in <I>Fellowship of the Ring</I> set in Zuzana
    Licko&#39;s Matrix. They were used for the conversations in Elf-ish or whatever
    Tolkien called it. Can&#39;t wait for the next one.
  created: '2002-10-11 05:27:03'
- author:
    name: gregorycadars
  body: ' Does the article on Print magazine speaks about precise fonts for screen
    captions? <BR>Most of the times I see rounded fonts on screen. Perhaps it&#39;s
    the screen who renders that? '
  created: '2002-10-11 16:32:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Joe Clark&#39;s right though--- all sorts of typographic atrocities
    can be found. <BR> <BR>I read Joe&#39;s article &#40;in the current Print&#41;
    the other day, and I thought it was well-written and very insightful. On the other
    hand, actually making recommendations for improvements would have made it even
    more useful. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-10-11 17:55:50'
date: '2002-10-01 22:07:30'
title: Subtitles
...
