---
author:
  name: darryl
body: I tryed atomicmedias tut to make flash pixel fonts but it didnt work. For the
  past 1 year ive been making pixel fonts for flash another way which is explained
  here. <a href="http://www.ex-ess.s-p-a-c-e.co.uk/PixelFonts/" target="_blank">http://www.ex-ess.s-p-a-c-e.co.uk/PixelFonts/</a>
  <BR> <BR>But i would like to know how FFF makes their fonts and how they prevent
  fill in.
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The problem occurs when points from two different paths are directly on top
    of each other and one of the paths is a counter &#40;like the inside of an &#34;o&#34;&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>The method shown in the old Atomic Media tutorial &#40;no longer available&#41;
    was to use Fontographer&#39;s Change Weight command to make the characters slightly
    bolder, then use the Remove Overlap command. This causes the outside of the glyph
    to get larger and the inside smaller, neatly moving the offending points away
    from each other. <BR> <BR>There are other ways to do it, but the main thing is
    to avoid overlapping points. <BR> <BR>FWIW, the method in the tutorial you linked
    to works too, but the &#34;cut&#34; would be visible in some uses &#40;if you
    used it large, for example&#41;.
  created: '2003-09-22 17:48:58'
- author:
    name: Miguel Hernandez
    picture: 110435
  body: Darryl <BR> <BR>Test your fonts on the trial of Flash MX 2004, then select
    your text and push the ALIAS TEXT button, you can edit the grid to 1x1 px to draw
    with pixels direct on flash too... finally export your swf. <BR> <BR>mh.
  created: '2003-09-22 19:16:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I&#39;ve been testing some different kinds of fonts in FlashMX 2004 and it
    looks like the filled-in-counter problem has been fixed! This means that all the
    various techniques that have been developed to get Flash to behave with pseudo-bitmap
    fonts are no longer needed &#40;except if you use earlier versions of Flash&#41;.
    This will greatly simplify the creation of such fonts.
  created: '2003-09-24 04:27:08'
date: '2003-09-22 16:13:25'
title: Could Someone explain to me.
...
