---
author:
  name: squeeze
  picture: 110137
body: I have a fairly complex stationary suite that I need to produce in the next
  couple of weeks. The job requires some extremely tight registration for a small
  die cut detail and some letterpress. Please let me know if you have any low run
  quality craftsman in the LA, Orange County or Riverside County areas of Southern
  California. I appreciate any contacts you can give me in the next 24 hrs. <BR> <BR>Mahalo,
  <BR>Scott
comments:
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: Scott - over in the Uppercase section...there&#39;s a big <BR>long thread...it
    was mostly about lap dancing and SUVs, <BR>with a little bit of letterpress thrown
    in to keep our interest. <BR>Anyway, I mention this because Adam King made a post
    <BR>where he mentioned 10&#43; years of letterpress experience. <BR> <BR>He&#39;s
    not far from you, in Pasadena. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/board-profile.pl?action=view_profile&amp;profile=typehack-users"
    target="_blank">www.typophile.com/cgibin/board-profile.pl?action=view_profile&amp;profile=typehack-users</a>
    <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t forget Hrant and Gerald Lange. <BR>Either of those three could
    probably point you in a good direction. <BR> <BR>this site might help... <BR>
    <BR><a href="http://www.print-world.com/trade_directory/index.asp" target="_blank">www.print-world.com/trade_directory/index.asp</a>
    <BR> <BR>and there&#39;s a trade magazine called Horse Trader or <BR>The Horse
    Trader that covers Southern California. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s chock full of printer
    ads. <BR> <BR>I could dig an old one up, or get a contact tomorrow, <BR>just let
    me know. <BR> <BR>bj
  created: '2003-09-25 09:13:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Don&#39;t forget Hrant and Gerald Lange. <BR> <BR>You&#39;ve got to
    be kidding including me in there. I don&#39;t know jack. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-09-25 15:51:18'
- author:
    name: porky
    picture: 110491
  body: You may not know Jack &#40;hey, can anyone <i>truly</i> know him?&#41;, but
    you know type, Hrant.
  created: '2003-09-25 17:18:08'
- author:
    name: squeeze
    picture: 110137
  body: 'BJ: Thanks for the help. I&#39;m following the Adam King lead. I didn&#39;t
    find what I&#39;m looking for from print-world.com. <BR> <BR>Hrant: I&#39;m disappointed.
    If I remember right you are in Brea or somewhere in that neck of the woods, aren&#39;t
    you? That&#39;s my home stomping grounds, so if you do know of any resources out
    there, please do share. <BR> <BR>David: He really does know type, doesn&#39;t
    he. <BR> <BR>Aloha! <BR>Scott'
  created: '2003-09-25 18:03:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Brea? No, I&#39;m in Glendale &#40;Armotown&#41;. <BR> <BR>Gerald is your
    man: <a href="mailto:Bieler@worldnet.att.net">Bieler@worldnet.att.net</a> <BR>Another
    friendly and knowledgable local is Jill Bell. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-09-25 18:22:03'
date: '2003-09-25 07:54:37'
title: Need some quick sourcing assistance
...
