---
author:
  name: Diner
  picture: 110407
body: ' If you&#39;ve ever noticed when you generate a font from FOG and activate
  it with ATM Deluxe, then open an application like Quark or Illustrator, then specify
  a typeface in one of those applications, there are several lists in the drop down
  font menu. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t know if this is a symptom of Adobe Type Reunion,
  but it seems there is an &#39;A&#39; list of fonts that sit at the top half of the
  the list which seem to be perfectly alphabetized, and a &#39;B&#39; list of fonts
  that are also alphabetized yet sit far below their &#39;A&#39; list counterparts.
  <BR> <BR>So in what manner does one need to generate a font to be part of the &#39;A&#39;
  list? <BR> <BR>Stuart :D '
comments:
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'What I want to know is, how is &#40;<A HREF="http://fontdiner.com" TARGET="_blank">Fontdiner.com</A>&#41;
    <BR>result #4 when I search Google for &#39;font&#39;? <BR> <BR>=&#41;'
  created: '2002-07-18 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Stuart -- <BR> <BR>I think you&#39;re describing a feature of ATR Deluxe which
    puts the most recently used fonts up at the top to make them more convenient.
    Open the ATR control panel and in the General tab you&#39;ll see a check box for
    &#34;Show <I>xx</I> most recently used fonts. <BR> <BR>The only thing is, in my
    experience the A list is ordered chronologically, not alphabetically. <BR> <BR>Bottom
    line, I don&#39;t think you can do anything to make sure that your font always
    shows up on the A list. &#40;Of course, if you name it with an A, it&#39;ll be
    at the top of the B list. Or generate a font menu name with a space as the first
    character and wind up on the tippy top.&#41; <BR> <BR>-- K. <BR> <BR>P.S. Congrats
    on the recent release &#40;I&#39;m sorry, I&#39;ve forgotten his name&#41;. Missed
    you at TypeCon. Next year, eh?
  created: '2002-07-18 21:18:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: ' The other thing is, if the FOND ID of the font says it&#39;s not a MacRoman
    font, it will get grouped separately with other fonts of the same Mac codepage.
    <BR> <BR>T '
  created: '2002-09-10 19:33:48'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: ' AHA! <BR> <BR>So when generating a font from Fontographer if I say the family
    is &#34;Don&#39;t Care&#34; instead of &#34;Roman&#34; chances are my font won&#39;t
    show up on the &#34;Upper&#34; list. Is that what you&#39;re saying Tom? <BR>
    <BR>Stuart :D '
  created: '2002-09-10 20:09:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: ' Stuart: <BR> <BR>Sounds like a good guess. It&#39;s been a long time since
    I used FOG much, though - I&#39;ve been on FontLab for years now. <BR> <BR>T '
  created: '2002-09-10 20:38:52'
date: '2002-07-18 18:30:34'
title: Want to hang out with the cool kids at the top of the list . . .
...
