---
author:
  name: ness
body: Can anybody tell me if when designing a logo - does the company that the logo
  is for have to buy a copy of the typeface used in it&#39;s design? Or, is it just
  the designer who should have purchased the typeface initially?
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'When making the proposal on the logo include all your out of pocket costs
    including typefaces. If its type converted to line art its one thing but if the
    client wants multiple users to be able type the logo as a typeface they will have
    to buy a multiple user licence for that face. Don&#39;t give away your work and
    let the client know: you can&#39;t bake a cake without flour and you can&#39;t
    create his/hers logo without type.'
  created: '2003-10-03 21:05:56'
- author:
    name: cchs
    picture: 110574
  body: We build the cost of purchasing any typefaces used in the design &#40;logo,
    print work, signage and interactive&#41; into the job and pass those on to the
    client. <BR> <BR>If the client needs their own license for the ongoing use of
    a font &#40;i.e for a newsletter template or text settings for correspondence&#41;
    we will usually negotiate the license for them but we generally ask the client
    to purchase the font directly. <BR> <BR>In the case of a logo/logotype, I also
    try to contact the type designer when the project is done so they can see what
    we did with their work &#40;especially since the type used in logos is usually
    modified significantly&#41;. This is more a curtesy than anything, and it&#39;s
    fun to get feedback.
  created: '2003-10-04 22:49:50'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: I also build the cost of any typefaces purchased into the price of a job.  If
    a client needs the font for any additional usage I will purchased what they need
    for them or direct them to where they can purchase their own copy. <BR> <BR>Jeff
    Fisher <BR>Engineer of Creative Identity <BR> <BR>Jeff Fisher LogoMotives <BR><a
    href="http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com" target="_blank">http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com</a>
  created: '2003-10-04 23:53:33'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: '&#62;&#62; you can&#39;t bake a cake without flour and <BR>you can&#39;t
    create his/hers logo without &#40;purchasing&#41; <BR>a type&#40;face&#41;. &#40;parentheticals
    added within context I think&#41; <BR> <BR>sure you can and plenty do. <BR> <BR>^
    create your own type from scratch <BR>&#40;every logo designer should know &#42;how&#42;
    to do this.&#41; <BR>^ sketch and digitize <BR>^ use ink, brush, pen, bamboo,
    other media <BR> <BR>don&#39;t want to link to the Jay Wilkinson logo/TM thread,  <BR>but
    many of his points are strong. Rolling out an existing <BR>typeface should be
    an option, but not necessarily a robotic <BR>solution all of the time. <BR> <BR>
    <BR>bj <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-06 05:08:17'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: I agree. There are too many &#39;typed out&#39; logos. I think <BR>there are
    a lot of designers out there who are too afraid of <BR>type design to try. I know
    a bunch who couldn&#39;t render a <BR>letter to save their lives. &#40;Oh no,
    my beziers are lumpy!&#41;. <BR>Given, I am still trying to perfect this art,
    but I think there <BR>should be a little more emphasis on drawing type in design
    <BR>schools. I don&#39;t think people realize how powerfully unique <BR>letter
    forms establish identity. <BR> <BR>I always smile when people ask what font I
    used for a logo <BR>and I can say, &#39;No font, it&#39;s custom&#39;. Sometimes
    even <BR>clients are impressed. If nothing else, it makes you feel <BR>macho in
    a nerdy designer kind of way. <BR> <BR>The worst are logos done in script fonts
    that are supposed <BR>to look handwritten. It&#39;s even worse when they repeat
    <BR>characters without using alternates or ligatures. I have a <BR>hard time justifying
    &#39;hand-written&#39; fonts anyway, let alone <BR>in a logo. If you want to look
    like calligraphy, hire a <BR>calligrapher, or learn to draw yourself. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s
    true that it&#39;s easier to make deadlines and budgets <BR>with fonts, though.
    And we&#39;ve all been there...
  created: '2003-10-11 21:23:40'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: It&#39;s true that it&#39;s a time thing, too, and sometimes <BR>an existing
    typeface is the perfect solution. <BR> <BR>With the Typophile <BR>T-shirt designs,
    I was encouraged to see Custom Type <BR>and Lettering, or reworkings of existing
    type. <BR> <BR>speaking of Custom...Dylan, way to go man! <BR>Your site is up
    and looking fine. I&#39;m ready for <BR>the KoolAid. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.customartco.com/"
    target="_blank">http://www.customartco.com/</a>
  created: '2003-10-12 07:14:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I&#39;ve been teaching a digital lettering course, and my students who all
    said they were &#34;very comfortable&#34; in Adobe Illustrator at the begininng
    of the course, are realizing that rendering original work with bezier tools is
    a lot different than what they are use to doing in AI.  <BR> <BR>bj states that
    every designer should know how to do this, and I agree, but not every design student
    has been taught how, so I wonder how many designers know how to handle a bezier.
  created: '2003-10-12 14:23:35'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '&#62; When designing a logo - does the company that the logo  <BR>&#62; is
    for have to buy a copy of the typeface used in it&#39;s  <BR>&#62; design? <BR>
    <BR>No. But the designer, should have a proper license.'
  created: '2003-10-15 01:14:03'
date: '2003-10-03 17:30:10'
title: Paying for fonts when designing logos?
...
