---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: I&#39;m teaching my first typography course and was wondering if anyone new
  of resources to educate my students on combining more than one typeface on the page.
  <BR> <BR>Perhaps some list that states &#34;these fonts compliment these, but not
  these&#34; etc. <BR> <BR>Any help or suggestions would be appreciated. thanks.
comments:
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Gill Sans - Joanna <BR>
  created: '2003-10-07 02:53:51'
- author:
    name: hopstock
    picture: 110102
  body: Gill Sans and Joanna works but that is really no wonder since they have been
    designed both by eric gill! but actually this is also a good startingpoint - to
    check how typefaces of the same designer can be combined. a lot do well because
    proportions are similar. good way to start analysing what makes it work. <BR>
    <BR>I just combined Franklin Gothic Condensed with theSans Mono for a Arts-Event
    and Catalog seems to work fine. <BR> <BR>generally contrasts should be high -
    also contrasts in style - and usually no more than three typefaces on the same
    page - except logos etc. <BR> <BR>for combining sans and serif families on a level
    of same size they should have about the same x-height/proportions of heights.
    though it still is hard to match then. i found just a very few where it works
    ok. <BR> <BR>jan tschichold wrote some general rules in his book &#34;die neue
    typographie&#34; - the new typography or in his collection of writings i dont
    remember but i know that there is also a chapter in paul renners classic the art
    of typography. <BR> <BR>there is a nice basic examples online at <a href="http://www.ideabook.com/typepale.htm"
    target="_blank">http://www.ideabook.com/typepale.htm</a> go there and analyse.
    <BR> <BR>so far <BR> <BR>t. <BR>
  created: '2003-10-07 12:52:16'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: I&#39;d start with making &#34;The Elements of Typographic Style&#34; by Robert
    Bringhurst the required book. He talks about using letter shapes and the timeframe
    the type was designed as criteria in determining what fonts marry well. The book
    also addresses a great many other issues germane to your class.
  created: '2003-10-07 20:16:55'
date: '2003-10-06 15:54:03'
title: TYPE COMBINATION EDUCATION
...
