---
author:
  name: Dan Weaver
body: This is a story from Monday October 6th, New York Daily News. <BR> <BR>It was
  a room with a zoo <BR> <BR>She shared apt. with tiger, gator <BR> <BR>By LISA L.
  COLANGELO, WARREN WOODBERRY Jr. and DAVE GOLDINER <BR>DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITERS <BR>
  <BR>Ming the Bengal-Siberian tiger gives a heart-stopping stare from his cage at
  a Long Island pit stop yesterday. <BR>With its mouth duct-taped shut, Al, the caiman
  alligator that shared a Harlem apartment with a big cat and humans, is loaded into
  a truck bound for Midwest animal refuge. <BR>A woman who shared a Harlem apartment
  with a 425-pound tiger said yesterday she was terrified at first - but soon got
  used to living with the man-eater down the hall. <BR> <BR>Caroline Domingo told
  the Daily News she couldn&#39;t believe her eyes when she spotted the big cat roaming
  free in the apartment where she and her husband rented a room from tiger-owner Antoine
  Yates, 37. <BR> <BR>&#34;I walked in the door and [the tiger] was standing there
  looking at me,&#34; recalled Domingo, 49, a seamstress. &#34;I said, &#39;I know
  I&#39;m not seeing this. I know that wasn&#39;t a tiger.&#39; <BR> <BR>&#34;He turned
  around and looked at me like I was a damn fool,&#34; she said. <BR> <BR>But eventually,
  she said, &#34;We all became family.&#34; <BR> <BR>Her amazing account came a day
  after cops removed the Bengal-Siberian tiger named Ming. <BR> <BR>It also came amid
  questions of how a tiger and an alligator could have lived in the Drew Hamilton
  public housing complex for nearly two years without the city having a clue. <BR>
  <BR>&#34;You wonder what goes on,&#34; Mayor Bloomberg said. &#34;You can&#39;t
  write a book about this.&#34; <BR> <BR>Domingo told The News she got used to living
  with Ming, who played in a custom sandpit and gobbled 25 chicken thighs a day in
  the fifth-floor flat on Adam Clayton Powell Blvd., between 141st and 142nd Sts.
  <BR> <BR>The carnivorous beast was friendly and once gave her a hug with its declawed
  front paws. <BR> <BR>&#34;I didn&#39;t have a bruise or mark on me,&#34; said Domingo,
  who moved into the apartment earlier this year and was staying with friends yesterday.
  &#34;I was scared but I wasn&#39;t scared.&#34; <BR> <BR>Impurrfect family <BR>
  <BR>The menagerie began to unravel on Wednesday when Ming mauled Yates as he tried
  to stop him from attacking a pet kitten. <BR> <BR>Tipsters later told cops about
  the tiger, and police launched a commando-style raid to subdue Ming on Saturday.
  <BR> <BR>Both Ming and a 5-1/2-foot caiman alligator named Al were headed yesterday
  to an Ohio wildlife preserve, where they will be checked out for a month. <BR> <BR>Yates
  was being treated at a hospital in Philadelphia, where he fled last week, and will
  face criminal endangerment charges. A source said Yates has developed an infection
  and would be hospitalized most of the week. <BR> <BR>&#34;That cat could have killed
  a lot of people in that building,&#34; said Larry Wallach, an animal handler working
  with the nonprofit Center for Animal Care and Control. <BR> <BR>It was still unclear
  how Yates managed to keep the big cat for so long, when Ming was an open secret
  among tenants. <BR> <BR>Housing Authority officials said neighbors had complained
  about the smell of urine wafting from Yates&#39; apartment, but insisted no one
  mentioned a tiger. It wasn&#39;t immediately clear if the complaints were investigated.
  <BR> <BR>&#34;We will be looking into the entire situation to determine what was
  known or not known,&#34; said Howard Marder, a Housing Authority spokesman. &#34;Nobody
  could recall anything like this.&#34; <BR> <BR>Weighty situation <BR> <BR>Tenants
  are barred from having more than one pet in public housing projects, and the pet
  must weigh 40 pounds or less. <BR> <BR>Ming might have been about that size as a
  cub about two years ago when Yates brought him to the five-bedroom apartment where
  he once lived with his mother and several siblings. <BR> <BR>Yates treated Ming
  like a son, building the sandpit and providing balls for him to play with, Domingo
  said. Al lived in another bedroom, in a fiberglass tank. <BR> <BR>Yates and his
  girlfriend shared another room, and her 4-year-old son had his own bedroom. <BR>
  <BR>Domingo said the living room was well-kept and the furniture showed no signs
  of damage, even though Ming had the run of the place. <BR> <BR>Yates, a devoted
  animal lover, scrubbed Ming&#39;s room with bleach and Pine Sol and ran to the market
  every day for chicken, she said. &#34;That was his baby, as far as he was concerned,&#34;
  Domingo said. <BR> <BR>
date: '2003-10-06 16:47:59'
title: Typical Day in Harlem, NY
...
