---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: Something pretty scary just happened. I was having trouble printing a Word document,
  so I went to Restart &#40;I&#39;m on WinXP-Home&#41;. It was taking unusually long,
  and then out pops a window saying that the &#34;Font Capture&#34; task was having
  trouble quitting. Whatduhellisthatabout?! <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve long had this inkling
  that things have been poking into my computer for a while now, but this is the first
  time something so explicit &#40;not to mention font-centric&#41; has happened. <BR>
  <BR>---- <BR> <BR>BTW, &#34;readjust&#34;. No relation to the above. But think about
  it. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: 'Hrant, do you happen to use a Lexmark printer? They mention something called
    Font Capture in the technical specifications for certain printer configurations.
    Thus quoth: <BR><blockquote><b>Font Capture</b> <BR>Fonts can be captured dynamically
    and saved to hard disk or flash memory in the printer. A captured font appears
    as a printer resident font. If many fonts are used in jobs that are printed, capturing
    fonts and saving them in the printer will decrease network traffic on busy networks.</blockquote>
    <BR><a href="http://www.lexmark.com/AP/PH/solutions/simmipds_twc.html" target="_blank">http://www.lexmark.com/AP/PH/solutions/simmipds_twc.html</a>'
  created: '2003-10-19 02:37:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Yes, it <i>is</i> a Lexmark! Thanks Grant - that&#39;ll make me sleep better...
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-19 02:39:13'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: You&#39;re welcome. <BR> <BR>... this reminds me of when I was doing bits
    and pieces of tech support at Image Club when Mac System 7 was first released.
    Some machines were prone to throwing generic &#39;Type 1&#39; errors when older
    applications were not playing nicely with the new OS. The error window would come
    up on screen, freezing everything, and without supplying any additional information
    - descriptive or otherwise - to explain what had happened. Since Image Club was
    selling and supporting <i>type one PostScript</i> fonts in our font library, naturally
    customers who experienced this error message wanted to know why the fonts we sold
    them were causing their system to crash. Heh.
  created: '2003-10-19 02:46:53'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Hrant, upgrade to XP Pro.  Home is a POS as far as security is concerned.
    <BR> <BR>If you&#39;re concerned about things floating around on computer, get
    AdAware, it&#39;s a free download and it detects spyware.  Should be at <a href="http://www.lavasoft.de"
    target="_blank">www.lavasoft.de</a>. <BR> <BR>Also, if you&#39;re on broadband,
    definitely recommended to get a firewall.  <a href="http://www.zonelabs.com" target="_blank">www.zonelabs.com</a>
    has ZoneAlarm, another freebie, which is really good.  Plus it tells you when
    any programme tries to get access to the internet and allows you to take action
    to stop it. <BR> <BR>If you don&#39;t have one, get a virus scanner as well.  I
    recommend Norton&#39;s Antivirus &#40;just the Antivirus, none of the other crap
    they sell&#41;.  It&#39;s pretty good at detecting vira, and it also is able to
    find new vira that aren&#39;t listed in it&#39;s definitions files through several
    scanning algorithms.
  created: '2003-10-19 04:53:47'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: '&#62;XP Pro <BR>&#62;get a firewall <BR> <BR>Not sure if the Home version
    has this, but the Pro version has a pretty good firewall out of the box. I think
    my computer at work was the only one not be fecked up by the &#39;blaster&#39;
    worm the other month - and I&#39;m sure it&#39;s because I&#39;m the only one
    who uses the firewall. <BR> <BR>Though I&#39;m sure there are better firewalls
    out there.'
  created: '2003-10-19 16:17:21'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: The home version has the firewall too, but I always turn it off and put ZA
    on.
  created: '2003-10-19 21:19:09'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Does anyone find it rather humorous that Hrant&#39;s situation has managed
    to somehow devolve from one of simply recognizing a background printer utility
    that came with his Lexmark to that of an Windows OS upgrade, a fresh firewall
    installation, and the need for a third-party tool to intercept potential malware?
    <BR> <BR>I love my Macs.
  created: '2003-10-19 22:12:25'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Yes, let us completely forget the fact that if Macs were a big enough of a
    target that all that information would still apply. <BR> <BR>The only reason it
    doesn&#39;t is because you and your Mac hold less than 10 percent of all total
    computers in use and are not worth the time for anyone to write vira for.
  created: '2003-10-20 04:42:54'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: The statement that a platform is <i>&#34;...worth the time for anyone to write
    vira for&#34;</i> humours my &#60;10% market share to no end. If we build a security
    hole, they will come... <BR> <BR>Ah, but we must move on to other, more typographic,
    topics.
  created: '2003-10-20 05:04:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Grant, by that logic the best way to avoid computer viruses is simply to not
    use computers...  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-20 05:47:50'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: BTW, do you guys get viruses so frequently? <BR>I can&#39;t remember the last
    time I got one here, <BR>it was a long time ago. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>&#62;
    &#34;readjust&#34;. <BR> <BR>?
  created: '2003-10-20 14:52:59'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: By that same token, I suppose that by living in a bubble, one would never
    get sick either. And how boring that would be. Although, the occasional computer-free
    day is often very enjoyable.
  created: '2003-10-20 15:48:40'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: '&#62;<i>BTW, do you guys get viruses so frequently?</i> <BR>&#62;<i>I can&#39;t
    remember the last time I got one here,</i> <BR>&#62;<i>it was a long time ago.</i>
    <BR> <BR>1994. nVir B variant on floppy. Nuked it with <a href="http://charlotte.at.northwestern.edu/jln/ftp/index.ssi">Disinfectant</a>.'
  created: '2003-10-20 15:55:42'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: The last virus I got was that Chernobyl one &#40;W95.CIH&#41;, back in 1997.
    Back then I was using a 486 with 16 mb of RAM, if I started an antivirus program,
    I couldn&#39;t do anything else on the computer. <BR>I find it odd that so many
    people get those attachment viruses. I never got any... I don&#39;t even get spam
    now!
  created: '2003-10-20 15:59:49'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Chris: <BR> <BR>While market share is an issue, the reality is that it is
    simply &#42;easier&#42; to write viruses that take advantage of the Windows OS.  <BR>
    <BR>A quick google search points out one of many quotes: <BR> <BR>&#62;Microsoft
    programs vulnerable to viruses <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;By Will Rodger, USATODAY.com
    <BR>&#62;For even though Microsoft has produced the world&#39;s most popular operating
    <BR>&#62;system, its ease of use and the staggering number of features integrated
    <BR>&#62;into Windows and the Office applications has left the world&#39;s dominant
    <BR>&#62;computing platform uniquely vulnerable to a plague of troubles. <BR>
    <BR>A few weeks ago I was attempting to eradicate a start up application on one
    of my windows machines. My brother, and PC tech, stated, &#34;well, the start
    up item could be anywhere on your machine...there isn&#39;t a specific place that
    start up items have to exist&#34;. <BR> <BR>Things like that is why people that
    write virii prefer Windows ;o&#41;'
  created: '2003-10-20 19:16:05'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62;&#62;there isn&#39;t a specific place that start up items have to exist
    <BR> <BR>But that&#39;s an advantage, not a disadvantage. <BR>Eradicating start
    up progs just requires you to look at the list of them in the registry, where
    you can find out what to delete, or just remove them from the start up list. <BR>
    <BR>I don&#39;t think I can stand another PC v Mac debate. <BR>Its not the repeated
    arguments that get me, or the refusal of Mac owners to admit they spent way too
    much money on style and got so little substance. <BR>Its the way these deabates
    always end that really gets me down. After about 15 or 20 posts, the Mac lobby,
    with nowhere to go, because they have necessarily lost the argument starts to
    come up with &#39;oh no, the Mac/PC debate, how boring&#39;, despite the fact
    that they didn&#39;t find it boring before their claims were shot down. <BR>So,
    this time I&#39;m getting in first. <BR>PCs are better than Macs in every way,
    the end. <BR>Anyone who cares to argue with this is obviously a sad geeky loser
    who needs to trade in their Mac and get a life. '
  created: '2003-10-20 19:53:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Anonymous, why so angry, I use a Mac and thats because thats what the industry
    here in Manhattan uses for graphics. It could be called anything as far as I&#39;m
    concerned because its just a tool. I can&#39;t comment on PC vs Mac, because I&#39;ve
    never used a PC. Chill, I still use pen on paper for ideas first and the only
    computer needed is my brain. Dan
  created: '2003-10-20 20:51:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I use Macs, PCs, and Linux. Most OS debates are pointless because they consist
    of comments like yours, Anonymous. That doesn&#39;t mean one can&#39;t have an
    intelligent, interesting, and productive debate of the merits and drawbacks of
    each OS. These are the tools we use, afterall.
  created: '2003-10-20 21:09:28'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Daniel, he&#39;s not angry - just bored. Anyone who is posting anonymously
    regarding a Mac vs PC discussion is obviously providing nothing of substance to
    the debate except flame-bait. Ignore him and he&#39;ll go away.
  created: '2003-10-20 21:12:59'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: The Mac vs PC debate is not only old. It&#39;s futile and pointless. <BR>De
    gustibus non disputandum est.
  created: '2003-10-20 21:17:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Thank you Grant, I will. I hate spending any energy on negative people. Dan
  created: '2003-10-20 21:21:45'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: I have no problem with Macs, hell I wouldn&#39;t mind getting one one day.  I
    use them, and I also use PCs, but Grant&#39;s comment that he doesn&#39;t have
    to worry about anything like that because he has a mac just ticked me off. <BR>
    <BR>You do NOT have to have a security hole to have a virus.  Some vira do take
    advantage of security holes, but the vast majority of vira are ones that the user
    has to install themselves &#40;unknowningly of course&#41; and they&#39;re the
    ones you have to watch out for.  You get an email from a friend saying they&#39;ve
    included a screensaver of cutesy little kittens so you decide to try it yourself
    and bam...you&#39;ve just installed a virus that wipes out your windows directory
    the next time you start the computer. <BR> <BR>If Macs were the leading computer
    used today, the windows users would be probably be laughing at them for getting
    vira all the time. <BR> <BR>Virus users go after the biggest target.  Why shoot
    for the can when you can hit the barn much easier?  Which isn&#39;t to say, of
    course, that people don&#39;t shoot for the can, because there ARE Mac vira out
    there.  You just don&#39;t hear about them as often because it&#39;s the PC vira
    that get all the news.
  created: '2003-10-20 22:33:47'
- author:
    name: david_roughs
    picture: 110187
  body: Hey. <BR> <BR>As of late, I &#40;and I suspect I&#39;m not alone&#41; have
    started to feel a little, errr..., &#34;uncool&#34; if I don&#39;t get virus emails.
    Since most of the recent ones spread by email address books, the more virii you
    get, the more address books you&#39;re in.  <BR> <BR>Of course it really probably
    has a lot more to do with the tech-savvyness of your peers I s&#39;pose, but...
    <BR> <BR>Computer viruses have made for some interesting changes. I remember when
    I was working for a Seattle dot-com, the notices the IT department would tape
    all over the place whenever there was a new viral outbreak. A cyber-quarantine.
    <BR> <BR>David Roughs <BR>
  created: '2003-10-22 15:28:44'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: '&#62;<i>but Grant&#39;s comment that he doesn&#39;t have to</i> <BR>&#62;<i>worry
    about anything like that because he has</i> <BR>&#62;<i>a mac just ticked me off.</i>
    <BR>  <BR>I&#39;m sorry you felt that way, as I didn&#39;t mean to tick anyone
    off. I believed I was simply stating the obvious. I really don&#39;t worry about
    anything. Yes, I run anti-viral software - but I can&#39;t remember the last time
    anything ever triggered a warning. And I&#39;m not operating is some sterile,
    non-networked environment. My home Mac has a public IP address and is wide open
    on several ports. Other than spam, I have never had a single infection or breach.
    I feel secure running a Macs. I feel vulnerable every time I touch a Windows box
    and I wonder if I&#39;m going to be able to boot up tomorrow. <BR> <BR>&#62;<i>...because
    there ARE Mac vira out there.</i> <BR>&#62;<i>You just don&#39;t hear about them
    as often</i> <BR>&#62;<i>because it&#39;s the PC vira that get all the news.</i>
    <BR> <BR>True. But you also don&#39;t hear about them, because they&#39;re pretty
    much non-existent at this point in the game &#40;other than Microsoft-borne macro
    vira, but that&#39;s another issue altogether&#41; or else they&#39;re harmless,
    benign annoyances. <BR> <BR>Of course, this is my own opinion based on 25 years
    of personal experience with multiple computing platforms. I&#39;ll completely
    accept the fact that other&#39;s milage may vary.'
  created: '2003-10-22 15:50:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I feel vulnerable every time I touch a Windows box and <BR>&#62; I
    wonder if I&#39;m going to be able to boot up tomorrow.  <BR> <BR>Grant, I think
    a lot of that is in your head - which is pretty normal for any human! <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve
    been on a couple of Windows laptops &#40;Win98, then WinXP&#41; with a broadband
    connection for about three years now, with no firewall and no anti-virus software
    &#40;and no backup&#41;. I do admit to feeling a bit vulnerable &#40;maybe that
    keeps me alive? I hate insurance for example - like that guy in Deliverance&#41;,
    but the fact is nothing has happened yet &#40;yes, I know &#34;yet&#34; might
    be the operative word here :-&#41;, and if there <i>is</i> a virus it&#39;s not
    doing anything damaging. I take some basic precautions &#40;like not using MS
    Outlook, and never running emailed executables, or accepting downloads from strange
    sites&#41;, but I&#39;m no recluse, so I&#39;m sure I&#39;m some kind of target
    to some people. So basically it&#39;s not that bad. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-22 17:09:23'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: '&#62;<i>Grant, I think a lot of that is in your head</i> <BR>&#62;<i>- which
    is pretty normal for any human!</i> <BR>  <BR>My wife keeps telling me that life
    is 99% mental. <BR> <BR>And I&#39;ll admit that my bias is showing.'
  created: '2003-10-22 18:10:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; My wife keeps telling me that life is 99% mental. <BR> <BR>I guess
    that&#39;s better than &#34;I have a headache&#34;.  ;-&#62; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-22 18:13:17'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: My hypothesis why there are few mac viruses is that mac  <BR>developers are
    a&#41; so busy defending their chosen platform and <BR>b&#41; too proud of their
    platform to do anything to hurt the  <BR>mac community. It&#39;s about pride of
    ownership, not only a  <BR>numbers game &#40;more PC users means more PC viruses&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>Ahem, that&#39;s my hypothesis anyway. I&#39;d love to find some  <BR>facts
    to support it. <BR> <BR>And I don&#39;t know why you should be upset that we don&#39;t  <BR>have
    to worry about viruses. Statistically it&#39;s true. Mac users  <BR>don&#39;t
    get viruses... I think in the 12 years I&#39;ve used them  <BR>that I&#39;ve gotten
    viruses twice. &#40;Both were worms.&#41;
  created: '2003-10-22 21:39:39'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: I&#39;m not upset that you don&#39;t have to worry about vira, I&#39;m just
    upset at the general &#34;We&#39;re better than you are&#34; attitude of most
    Mac users.  Windows users have the attitude too, but for Mac users it generally
    borders on Martyrism and it&#39;s just one of those things that get to me. <BR>
    <BR>I usually play devils advocate when it comes to Mac v. PC discussions, but
    when having them with &#34;hard core&#34; Mac heads it&#39;s everything I can
    do not to want to ram their heads into a wall &#40;not that I wanted to do that
    with Grant, but that argument is one of the biggest, and to me illogical, of them
    and is usually guaranteed to get my ire up&#41;.
  created: '2003-10-22 23:11:27'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#39;I&#39;m just upset at the general &#34;We&#39;re better than you are&#34;
    attitude of most Mac users.&#39; <BR> <BR>Oh, but we are. But why should this
    upset you? <BR> <BR>Gerald'
  created: '2003-10-23 02:42:06'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: '...'
  created: '2003-10-23 05:04:22'
date: '2003-10-19 01:01:06'
title: '&#34;Font Capture&#34;?!'
...
