---
author:
  name: capthaddock
  picture: 110400
body: 'I&#39;m working on a corporate branding project for a major forestry association
  in British Columbia, and right now I&#39;m using DIN as a primary typeface with
  The Serif for secondary usage. <BR> <BR>My question is: in the experienced opinions
  here, is The Serif suitable for body text? I think it&#39;s a lot better than the
  sans serif faces that some companies use for long copy, but if there are other suggestions,
  I&#39;ll hear them. <BR> <BR>Paul'
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Luc&#40;as&#41; de Groot designed TheAntiqua because he was <BR>appalled at
    how often he saw TheSerif used for long text. <BR> <BR>But I used TheSerif as
    the text font for 4 years in a student  <BR>magazine and it worked very well.
    The rag was printed on  <BR>bad newsprint so it performed better than most types  <BR>would.
    Maybe if the company you&#39;re working for is printing  <BR>a lot of glossy stuff
    it might be too stark, but I wouldn&#39;t  <BR>flatly recommend against it. It
    depends more on the <BR>personality of the company.  <BR> <BR>But give TheAntiqua
    and PMN Caecilia a try. <BR> <BR>Your user icon is very pretty, btw, PD.
  created: '2003-10-20 19:58:20'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: We&#39;ve been using the Thesis families in numerous  <BR>settings and they
    always performs very well. I wouldn&#39;t  <BR>set fine books in them, but anything
    magazinish,  <BR>brochuresque, corporate-related etc. is mighty fine,  <BR>even
    for body copy. <BR> <BR>Though I understand and respect his opinion, I think  <BR>Luc&#40;as&#41;
    always has been a teeny bit anal about this.
  created: '2003-10-20 23:22:17'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: Thanks for the advice, Stephen and Yves. <BR> <BR>TheAntiqua is very nice,
    but if I can&#39;t justify the expense, I may stick with TheSerif. It&#39;ll mostly
    be used for corporate brochures, fact sheets, and short newsletters. <BR> <BR>My
    icon appreciates the compliment, Stephen. <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-10-21 00:03:47'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: PMN Caecilia -- ahh, one of my favorite slab serif faces. <BR> <BR>hildebrant.
  created: '2003-10-24 01:24:08'
- author:
    name: karen
    picture: 110338
  body: Mine too! I love the italic k.  <BR> <BR>But I recently used it for a project
    and the roman turned out a little light even though I printed on uncoated stock.
    <BR> <BR>The printer&#39;s &#34;inkjet&#34; proofs were lovely though. <BR> <BR>I
    don&#39;t think I&#39;ll ever understand printing. I thought the uncoated paper
    would make it nice and earthly. It wasn&#39;t that thin a font to begin with.
    <BR> <BR>Anyone know why this happens?
  created: '2003-10-24 20:21:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Karen on press they can control the amount of ink and vary it across the
    sheet. The hardness of the uncoated makes alot of difference. I&#39;ve run 4 color
    on a linen finish paper and the ink sits right on top like a coated paper. Why
    because when you make Linen finished paper they press the finish between two drums
    and create a hard surface. '
  created: '2003-10-24 21:52:33'
- author:
    name: karen
    picture: 110338
  body: '&#62; the hardness of the uncoated paper <BR>? <BR> <BR> I don&#39;t understand.
    I thought uncoated paper absorbs more ink than coated stock and so has a larger
    dot gain which would translate to heavier &#40;than usual&#41; font. <BR> <BR>Is
    uncoated paper harder than coated ones then? It&#39;s counter-intuitive.'
  created: '2003-10-25 04:46:58'
date: '2003-10-20 19:32:43'
title: How much text is The Serif good for?
...
