---
author:
  name: Ramiro Espinoza
  picture: 110426
body: 'You can check my new font at: <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/presentacion_lula.pdf"
  TARGET="_top">http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/presentacion_lula.pdf</A> <BR> <BR>&#40;do
  not click the link, just copy the URL and paste it in the browser&#41; <BR> <BR>Any
  critique will be welcome. <BR> <BR>Regards. <BR> <BR>Ramiro Espinoza. <BR>www.jazz.futurezone.com'
comments:
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: ' Ramiro, <BR> <BR>It&#39;s lovely. I like the way you&#39;ve used a consistent
    set of techniques in a loose, organic way. <BR> <BR>The only characters I&#39;m
    not crazy about are the lower case t and the upper case V. I think the t needs
    a stronger &#40;wider? thicker?&#41; crossbar, positioned closer to the x-height.
    And the V is too straightforward -- it would benefit from a curved terminal. <BR>
    <BR>Nice work! '
  created: '2002-08-01 17:15:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Hey, pretty nice. <BR>A little bit of Licko in there &#40;Dogma, plus some
    Tarzana in the lc&#41;, but still very original and workable. You&#39;ve made
    some interesting choices, but most of them work for me. Some of the caps need
    taming &#40;like the &#34;G&#34;&#41;, but the &#91;more important&#93; lc seems
    to have great balance, overall. &#40;And I agree with Marc&#39;s views.&#41; <BR>
    <BR>BTW, I think you need a lighter weight &#40;or two&#41;. And the numerals
    are nice. <BR> <BR>Oh, and nice quote too!  ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-08-01 17:36:16'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' I&#39;d agree with Marc. Lovely. I&#39;d buy something like this. Great
    work. <BR> <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2002-08-01 17:36:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ' This &#42;is&#42; nice. -- Yeah. Both characters mentioned by Marc do need
    a little something extra. And I also agree with Hrant, this would definitely be
    something I would want in more weights, heavier and lighter. Are you going to
    try for an italic? '
  created: '2002-08-01 18:00:25'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Ramiro -- <BR> <BR>I agree, this <I>is</I> nice. &#40;Funny, I&#39;ve got
    a sketch in a drawer somewhere with some similar concepts.&#41; You&#39;ve done
    a nice job with it. I agree with most of the specific character comments -- the
    t, V, G.  <BR> <BR>In addition, I think the S and s could benefit from a less
    rigid, less steep spine. Your capital X could be a little wider and less clotted
    in the center &#40;the lc x, also, to a lesser extent&#41;. The lc z might like
    to be a little wider as well. I&#39;m not crazy about that bump in the O and o;
    it interrupts the counter and looks like a glitch. The ear on the lc r could maybe
    be a little more pronounced. <BR> <BR>But there are some really nice things going
    on here. Keep it up. <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2002-08-01 19:09:28'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: ' Thanks a lot to: <BR>Marc, Hrant, Kent, BjHarvey and Tiffany. <BR>Your comments
    were very useful. <BR>Greetings. <BR> <BR>Ramiro. '
  created: '2002-08-02 13:37:45'
date: '2002-08-01 15:32:39'
title: 'Please, critique my new font: &#34;Lula&#34;'
...
