---
author:
  name: union
  picture: 110556
body: 'I just did a search on my foundry &#39;Union Fonts&#39; in google and I came
  across this: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/unionfonts/hotmetal/"
  target="_blank">http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/unionfonts/hotmetal/</a> <BR> <BR>I
  was stunned to see this as we don&#39;t sell through My Fonts. It seems that he
  listing referes to a free font which we put on the Indie Fonts 2 CD. <BR> <BR>Doe
  anyone else think this is shocking? <BR> <BR>Jim'
comments:
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: I got the same looking for Fountain. Got  Eric Sans from the book. <BR> <BR><a
    href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fountain/eric-sans/" target="_blank">http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fountain/eric-sans/</a>
  created: '2003-10-24 17:36:30'
- author:
    name: porky
    picture: 110491
  body: I dont think its shocking that they&#39;re selling the Indie Fonts 2 CD/Book
    and are referencing fonts in it, but it is kinda shocking that you can testdrive
    the font on the site and yet they&#39;re not asked your permission to do so. <BR>
    <BR>Question is, is it against your license agreement, and/or the agreement that
    you had with Indie Fonts producers?
  created: '2003-10-24 17:37:15'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Yeah, I&#39;m sorry to see it&#39;s a surprise to you guys. The Indie <BR>Fonts
    people probably reached an agreement with MyFonts <BR>that jived with their agreement
    with you - or introduced <BR>something new to you before the fonts went online.
  created: '2003-10-24 17:40:55'
- author:
    name: union
    picture: 110556
  body: The other issue is that it is a breach of my agreement with the fonts designer.
  created: '2003-10-24 17:43:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'My guess is that MyFonts asked IndieFonts for permission to preview, and
    they were given the OK. <BR> <BR>Note that different fount houses have different
    previewing arrangements. <BR> <BR>Chances are if you complain they&#39;ll accomodate
    you. <BR>But don&#39;t: previewing has huge benefits and minimal drawbacks. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-24 17:46:43'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'MyFonts is notorious &#40;for good and bad&#41; for this. You can  <BR>see
    their aim is to become <i>the</i> place to find fonts. Search  <BR>for a font
    they don&#39;t sell &#40;<a href="http://www.myfonts.com/Search?searchtext=platelet"
    target="_blank">Emigre&#39;s Platelet</a> for example&#41; <BR>and a listing shows
    up, even though they don&#39;t sell it. <BR> <BR>Does it upset you that they list
    you at all?  <BR> <BR>Does it upset you that, if they&#39;re truly trying to be  <BR>comprehensive,
    they don&#39;t list everything from Union  <BR>Fonts? <BR> <BR>Does their listing
    misrepresent you in some way? <BR> <BR>&#40;I&#39;m curious to explore this because
    you&#39;re not the only  <BR>person I&#39;ve heard bemoan MyFonts for that practice.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>[ Correction: They do sell Platelet. ]'
  created: '2003-10-24 17:50:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If you click through, they are selling the Indie Fonts book, which contains
    the font, not the font all by itself, so technically they don&#39;t appear to
    have done anything illegal with regards to licence agreements <BR> <BR>You&#39;re
    right, it is cheeky. <BR>And it is misleading, because it infers that the price
    of the font is $39.95, and some people who don&#39;t click through will assume
    this is the case, and that MyFonts distributes Union Fonts. <BR> <BR>I wouldn&#39;t
    say it was shocking, rather that they have tried to do some clever marketing but
    outsmarted themselves. Also, it was easier to use their standard format, rather
    than prepare a special piece of artwork. I&#39;m sure if you ask them, they will
    do the right thing -- either de-list the font, or prepare the special file that
    explains that the font is available bundled with Indie Fonts. <BR> <BR>On the
    upside, if MyFonts customers do &#34;buy&#34; HotMetal as part of IndieFonts,
    they also get to see all the other Union Fonts specimens in the book.
  created: '2003-10-24 17:53:38'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: I should append that I&#39;m not necessarily talking about the <BR>Indie Fonts
    listings, but their practice in general of listing <BR>every foundry / font. <BR>
    <BR>I won&#39;t deny the usefulness of their site in finding fonts and <BR>information.
    But I can see how some foundries may not like <BR>the lack of control over what
    is said / shown on the site.
  created: '2003-10-24 17:54:27'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hrant is right. You&#39;ll only benefit from being up there.
  created: '2003-10-24 17:55:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: MyFonts sells Emigre. <BR>The fonts they don&#39;t sell &#40;like Adobe&#41;
    they show a very simple preview and even point to the source. <BR> <BR>Jim, this
    is probably just another typical mismatch between &#34;cascading&#34; agreements.
    Did you specify in your IndieFonts agreement that the fonts cannot be previewed
    anywhere besides the book? Don&#39;t assume you&#39;ve been somehow tricked. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-24 17:56:05'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: I have no problem with it, I just feel they should&#39;ve asked before. Can&#39;t
    remember the agreement with P22 but I think it&#39;s just the individual license
    agreement for each foundry that is in the works.
  created: '2003-10-24 17:58:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Myfonts does not have previews of every foundry. For instance, you cannot
    preview The Hoefler Type Foundry, nor can you preview Jean Fran\xE7ois&#39; type
    faces &#40;accept old versions sold by other foundry&#39;s&#41;. The fact that
    they list those foundries at all cannot, surely, be a bad or evil thing. Can it?"
  created: '2003-10-24 17:59:03'
- author:
    name: union
    picture: 110556
  body: Is listing foundries they have no dealing with is wrong? <BR> <BR>If Coke
    put Pepsi in the meta tags on there website, would that be unfair competition...
  created: '2003-10-24 18:03:46'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: This is an interesting issue. As the buck stops here guy with Indie Fonts,
    I would like to chime in. I think partially due to my personal admiration of how
    MyFonts has treated us, I made a decision to allow MyFonts to distribute the Indie
    fonts books. The entire Indie Fonts project was intended as co-operative distribution
    vehicle. The individual showings of each font from the Indie Fonts CDs are simply
    specific details from the book. The purchaser is getting the same end product
    &#40;a book and a CD&#41; as if they bought it in a Barnes and Noble. There is
    no download of the Indie fonts on Myfonts or anywhere else. MyFonts is one of
    the many places people can buy Indie Fonts. I never imagined that anyone would
    have a problem getting more exposure for their foundry and type designs. Our agreement
    with each foundry was very basic yet very much concerned with promoting the foundries
    and not dictating how they distribute their fonts. One of the many goals of the
    Indie Fonts books was to facilitate exposure of the participants fonts to people
    who might not otherwise see them. I did not see the need to get permission from
    the 35 foundries included in the 2 books and dreaded the idea of another group
    emailing that only half of the participants would respond to. Yes it is  a bit
    odd to see the price of the end product when you are looking at the detail &#40;see
    the P22 extras sampler on MyFonts and it&#39;s bargain price&#41;. Unfair competition?...I
    don
  created: '2003-10-24 18:33:47'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: '&#62;<i>If Coke put Pepsi in the meta tags on there</i> <BR>&#62;<i>website,
    would that be unfair competition...</i> <BR> <BR>In fact, this issue of meta tag
    usage has been cause for legal action in some cases. <BR> <BR>Search Engine Watch:
    Meta Tag Lawsuits <BR> <a href="http://searchenginewatch.com/resources/print.php/34791_2156551"
    target="_blank">http://searchenginewatch.com/resources/print.php/34791_2156551</a>
    <BR> <BR>I personally have no issue with sites mentioning or linking to products
    they don&#39;t normally represent, providing they are displaying accurate contact
    information for the owner or foundry in question and that proper copyright or
    trademark attributions are in place.'
  created: '2003-10-24 18:39:25'
- author:
    name: union
    picture: 110556
  body: Richard <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not about us being listed because of Indie Fonts
    &#40;which is a great book, and has done us a lot of good&#41; it&#39;s totally
    the fact that MyFonts list foundries which have nothing to do with them. <BR>
    <BR>Put it this way, if I listed Emigre or Fountain fonts on Union without speaking
    to them about it, would that be wrong? <BR> <BR>I think my visitor numbers may
    go up.
  created: '2003-10-24 18:40:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Richard: <BR>But Union is responsible to its designers. If even one of them
    has a problem with the preview ability on MyFonts &#40;even if I for one think
    it&#39;s great&#41;, then there&#39;s a mismatch between one agreement and another
    &#40;in this case subsequent&#41; one. It&#39;s really just a matter of miscommunicating
    details, so nobody should feel outraged. But if a given font designer can point
    to an original agreement that prevents previewing &#40;or even if he can show
    he was tricked into a preview allowance&#41; then the preview needs to be pulled,
    one way or another. <BR> <BR>On the other hand, forbidding plain <i>linking</i>
    &#40;or even static renderings from legally-owned fonts&#41; is not viable. <BR>
    <BR>Jim: <BR>If your site just says Emigre fonts exist &#40;like MyFonts does
    with Adobe for example&#41; then it&#39;s just dandy. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-24 18:43:47'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: '&#62; if I listed Emigre or Fountain fonts on Union without speaking to them
    about it, would that be wrong?  <BR> <BR> <BR>If you sold a publication that included
    Emigre or Fountain fonts, you should not have to clear it with them as to every
    outlet that also sold the book. It would be wrong to NOT list who and what was
    in the publication.'
  created: '2003-10-24 18:46:14'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: I agree with everything you say Richard. I think what Jim is opposed is the
    fact that the way it&#39;s displayed it looks like his fonts are sold through
    myfonts.  <BR> <BR>It looks a bit sneeky - I must agree. But I also think it&#39;s
    a good thing, since it draws attention to the book and the foundry.
  created: '2003-10-24 18:57:44'
- author:
    name: union
    picture: 110556
  body: Just to clarify, my issue really is that MyFonts lists foundries in this way,
    I have no issue with Indie Fonts.
  created: '2003-10-24 18:58:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: When you say &#34;in this way&#34;, are you referring to the possible appearance
    that the fonts are available through MyFonts? Well, they are! Just not as downloads.
    And you can&#39;t not have an issue with IndieFonts, because that&#39;s how the
    fonts ended up on MyFonts. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-24 19:02:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Well, they are! <BR> <BR>Sorry, they&#39;re not - I got confused. <BR>
    <BR>But I still think: <BR>1&#41; It&#39;s legal. And if you think it&#39;s unethical,
    I&#39;d be surprised if they don&#39;t accomodate you. <BR>2&#41; The &#34;worst&#34;
    that can happen is users realize they have to buy the stuff elsewhere. Do you
    think people who see your fonts on MyFonts become less likely to buy them? <BR>
    <BR>And my IndieFonts point stands: the main problem is that your agreement with
    them seems to be a subset of your designers&#39; agreement with you. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-24 19:09:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Hey, wait a second: when did Adobe sign with MyFonts? <BR><a href="http://www.myfonts.com/browse/foundry/adobe/"
    target="_blank">http://www.myfonts.com/browse/foundry/adobe/</a> <BR>Cool. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-24 19:15:32'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: We were not aware of any limitations in displaying fonts included with the
    books. I think what can be done is some sort of clarification at MyFonts regarding
    the level of representation of foundries that MyFonts does not already have an
    existing agreement with. <BR>
  created: '2003-10-24 19:26:08'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: '...and for those who are uncomforatble with the test drive feature, I am
    sure it can be removed.'
  created: '2003-10-24 19:36:05'
- author:
    name: smith
  body: On the myfonts.com page with the full showing of GarageFonts&#39; Sinsation
    it says &#34;MyFonts.com sells Sinsation by agreement with P-Type Publications.&#34;
    Well there is no agreement for them to sell Sinsation. What&#39;s up with that?
  created: '2003-10-24 21:13:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I think the issue can be solved with the addition of these lines. This font
    is part of the Indie 2 Book type samples. Indie 2 Book can be bought through MyFonts
    for $39.95.   '
  created: '2003-10-24 21:26:21'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: 'We are in the process of  writng something very much to the effect of Daniel&#39;s
    suggestion. It&#39;s all fixable...if anyone needs to contact me directly, please
    do so. '
  created: '2003-10-24 21:36:11'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: 'I also need to chime in here. I wanted to add to what Richard says about
    how we have been marketing the Indie Fonts books at MyFonts. <BR> <BR>Internally,
    we realized that while some customers will be turned on by the books, others will
    be more so by the accompanying CD. The disks themselves, each containing dozens
    of fonts, will certainly appear as great value to many customers - as long as
    they can examine the fonts. &#40;Although the CD is not much marketed by others
    selling Indie Fonts, this was no reason to avoid such marketing. Those of you
    who saw last week&#39;s newsletter will have seen this is exactly how we marketed
    it to our customers.&#41; <BR> <BR>To reply to Nick &#40;&#34;it was easier to
    use their standard format, rather than prepare a special piece of artwork&#34;&#41;,
    I have to say I don&#39;t see the problem - if we have a technology that displays
    fonts in a manner that allows comparisons, then why would we not use it? Custom
    artwork and texts too, if there&#39;s time &amp; resources: so we added several
    photos of the books, wrote articles about the books from scratch, and posted links
    to reviews and more pictures. <BR> <BR>Having said all that, I realize we were
    probably remiss in not checking it was acceptable for customers to use Test Drive
    on all these fonts: we&#39;re now checking to see with the relevant foundries
    which preview mode they would like to use on their fonts. Also, in response to
    those who note that our presentation seemed to imply MyFonts had a direct relationship
    with certain foundries, we just added a paragraph to clarify sources: e.g. &#34;MyFonts.com
    sells HOTMETAL by agreement with P-Type Publications&#34;. Ralph notes this is
    still not ideal - we are working with Rich Kegler on this wording, and the mentions
    of font price. <BR> <BR>Some miscellaneous corrections from earlier in this thread.
    Yes, we do have a contract with Emigre to sell their fonts. To recorrect Hrant&#39;s
    self-correction, we &#42;are&#42; offering a font from Union Fonts &#40;not for
    download&#41;, thanks to its presence on IF2 and our contract with P-Type. No,
    we don&#39;t sell Adobe fonts directly, but sell many Adobe fonts thanks to our
    contract with Linotype. <BR> <BR>BTW please contact me at lorp _at_ myfonts.com
    if you want to write directly, or foundrysupport _at_ myfonts.com for the whole
    team.'
  created: '2003-10-24 22:31:40'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Is it time to change this thread title? <BR> <BR>Perhaps to &#34;Cheeky, but
    Flexible Bastards Who Care?&#34; Or  <BR>perhaps &#34;What&#39;s up with MyFonts
    listing <b>my</b> fonts!&#34; <BR> <BR>=&#41; <BR> <BR>Seriously, thanks for the
    clarifications Laurence.
  created: '2003-10-25 00:59:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Yeah, you should check out some of the real bastards out there. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-10-25 01:15:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: MyFonts is a major distributor of mine, and like many foundries who were left
    in the lurch when Makambo folded, where would I be without them?  <BR> <BR>Sure,
    I&#39;m critical of them occasionally  -- they are always trying new stuff and
    don&#39;t always get it exactly right first time. And as a major presence that
    aspires to be an industry resource, rather more than just another distributor,
    they should expect a little more heat. <BR> <BR>In their defence, Jim, sure it
    could be mistakenly construed that they are a Union distributor, but they have
    taken immediate steps to lessen that impression, and they also have a link to
    your site -- something that other distributors &#40;eg Fonts.com, FontShop, Veer&#41;
    do not provide online, even for their bona fide suppliers! <BR> <BR>Next up Laurence,
    can you fix the code so that it doesn&#39;t create grammar like &#34;an Union
    font&#34; or &#34;contains one fonts&#34;?  ;-&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-10-25 20:04:50'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: Ok, fixed the first typo - you&#39;ll have to help me find instances of the
    second... &#40;off-list!&#41;
  created: '2003-10-26 19:45:41'
date: '2003-10-24 17:26:58'
title: Cheeky bastards {MyFonts Listings}
...
