---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: Earlier this year I wrote an article for Graphic Exchange, &#60;a href=&#34;<a
  href="http://www.shinntype.com/Stories/Uniformity.pdf" target="_blank">http://www.shinntype.com/Stories/Uniformity.pdf</a>&#34;&#62;The
  Face of Uniformity,&#60;/a&#62; in which I criticized the widespread use of old
  sans-serif typefaces. <BR> <BR>As a follow-up, in my next article I will be discussing
  original, contemporary typefaces. <BR> <BR>That doesn&#39;t exclude designs in traditional
  genres, although I would be more inclined to include Frank Heine&#39;s Dalliance
  than his Tribute.  <BR> <BR>Any suggestions? &#40;Type designers, feel free to mention
  your own work.&#41;
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I would focus on Eastern Europe and South America. <BR>And I would immodestly
    suggest Patria too... It&#39;s gonna be the new gray.  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-24 21:41:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Spot on Nick. <BR> <BR>Loved the article. My feelings exactly.
  created: '2003-10-24 22:21:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Yes, great article - very informative, and a great close. <BR>You should
    try to get it published widely. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; &#34;The look of late 60s
    typography was very, <BR>&#62;&#62; very tight, and this way of setting has <BR>&#62;&#62;
    become intimately associated with Helvetica. <BR> <BR>Not least because Helvetica&#39;s
    default spacing is way too tight &#40;for good readability&#41;! <BR> <BR>Doyald
    Young in fact offers a very interesting -if also somewhat esoteric- explanation
    for the greater success of Helvetica over Univers: the latter is -or actually
    seemed- too loose. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-24 22:48:57'
date: '2003-10-24 21:01:48'
title: What&#39;s new?
...
