---
author:
  name: j75
body: Ok, so making continuous optical adjustments to the individual character widths
  in a typeface I&#39;m working on is taking forever. Is there a more <i>scientific</i>
  way of doing it than looking at the letters in context &#40;words, text&#41;, making
  &#40;subjective&#41; judgements about their legibility, adjusting accordingly and
  then repeating the cycle? <BR> <BR>There seems to be an &#40;inate?&#41; optimal
  width for each glyph. If a glyph is too wide it <i>looks wrong</i> and is distracting.
  This <i>sense</i> of what is ideal is what I&#39;m trying to use as a benchmark
  against which to make adjustments. But isnt that a bit too subjective? <BR> <BR>Where
  does this sense come from? Have our eyes just become accustomed to reading letters
  at a certain width, or is there an actual optimal width at which each character
  imparts its information and can thereby be recognisable? &#40;Perhaps related to
  the number of vertical strokes in a chracter, for example&#41; <BR> <BR>How does
  you design legibility &#40;as regards charcter widths specifically&#41; into an
  original typeface? Is it just optical adjustments or is there a more objective way?
  <BR> <BR>je
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: This is a very interesting line of discussion. <BR>I would love to see people
    brainstorm about it. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-01 22:56:58'
- author:
    name: nevick
  body: From a total newcomer point of view. <BR> <BR>i think the best way is to write
    out alot of text, pretty soon you will see holes by certian characters and you
    can adjust acordingly.. then you can see how that change impacts on the whole
    text. <BR> <BR>basically i belive there is just too many subjective factors for
    it to be some mathematical way to figure out spacing. <BR>
  created: '2003-06-02 09:45:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I can&#39;t believe nobody is bothering with this thread. <BR>This is where
    the beef is, people. No appetite for deep thought? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-15 22:50:23'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: 'Jumping in as a relative newcomer: <BR> <BR>An important factor might be
    where in the spectrum from classical proportions to monospaced proportions a typeface
    lies. <BR> <BR>A classical font like Trajan is built on the forms of the circle,
    the square, and the triangle. The result is that some letters, like O and C &#40;based
    on the circle&#41; are twice as wide as letters like E and L &#40;based on two
    squares&#41;. <BR> <BR>With a typeface like DIN, on the other hand, all letters
    strive to look the same width. <BR> <BR>There&#39;s plenty of room in between,
    but I expect that the classical proportions should give you a good idea of relative
    widths between letters. Applying this to lowercase might be another matter. <BR>
    <BR>Paul'
  created: '2003-08-16 00:49:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Indeed, there seem to be two models of UC width: the Classical with its great
    divergence&#42;, and what might be called the Modern with its convergence. But
    I&#39;m not sure how much there is in between. You do see some faces with a letter
    or two deviating from the Classical &#40;like the wide &#34;S&#34; of Will Carter
    and sometimes Zapf, and a wide &#34;E&#34;/&#34;F&#34; here and there&#41;, but
    I can&#39;t think of any that deviate much from the Modern - I guess that would
    look totally lousy. What I&#39;m saying is that your caps have to either diverge
    a lot or not at all&#42;&#42;. Makes sense? <BR> <BR>&#42; Although I&#39;m not
    sure how strong the geometric basis is. <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42; The only exception
    I can think of is Nick Shinn&#39;s fascinating Richler. <BR> <BR>So Jos'
  created: '2003-08-16 22:11:11'
- author:
    name: boole
  body: 'Interesting question. I&#39;d like to know more about this subject too, having
    that I&#39;m an absolute newbie. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m guessing that as '
  created: '2003-08-18 02:49:02'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: 'this is what i did when designing a face recently: <BR>made a table showing
    character widths. <BR>in my case, it was caps only. <BR>the columns contained
    my face, the trajan inscription&#42;,  <BR>and a bunch of faces that were relevant
    <BR>to my design &#40;eg. johnson sans, optima&#41; <BR> <BR>it was a really interesting
    exercise, <BR>as i had started off with a &#39;one width fits all&#39; approach,  <BR>but
    doing the comparisons <BR>made me assign some of the  <BR>glyphs a unique width
    <BR> <BR> <BR>&#42; i used a book which gives an analysis of the <BR>geometry
    of the trajan inscription.  <BR>i would post the ref,  <BR>but i don&#39;t have
    it to hand. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-18 13:44:49'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: actually, paul suggested this approach <BR>in the first place. thanks!
  created: '2003-08-18 13:49:02'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: 'talking about divergence from a norm/average value: <BR>i wonder how much
    UC width variation there is among the various surviving roman inscriptions? eg,
    if you took a dozen Es from a dozen discrete &#40;surviving/recorded&#41; incriptions
    how much would the widths vary? has anyone done an analysis of like glyphs from
    these sources? <BR> <BR>poeple have always used the trajan column as a model of
    classical proportions, but surely in 114AD it didn&#39;t have that role: it was
    just one of many public inscriptions... <BR>&#40;off-topic, sorry&#41; <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-18 14:24:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Although the Trajan style of lettering isn&#39;t just on the Trajan column,
    I share your suspicion that there&#39;s more to it than that. More than a suspicion
    was aired by Cynthia Batty during ATypI&#39;s Rome conference, where she glossed
    over some &#34;competing&#34; styles of lapidary lettering from ancient Rome,
    and actually took a swipe at Trajan-worship, to the cheer of people like me. <BR>
    <BR>BTW, can we see your data? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-18 15:52:40'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: '&#62;BTW, can we see your data?  <BR> <BR>sure, although it&#39;ll have to
    wait a few days, because i&#39;ll be away. also, my table was compiled with the
    development of my typeface &#39;playford&#39; in mind, so perhaps i should post
    it over at its critique thread&#42; <BR> <BR>&#42;<a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/29/12398.html?1059754435"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/29/12398.html?1059754435</a>
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-18 16:06:38'
- author:
    name: j75
  body: Maybe typefaces take so long to design and go through so many modifications
    when passed down the ages &#40;when transfered between technological contexts
    and passed from foundry to foundry, cut &amp; recut etc&#41;, that it seems they
    just <i>evolve</i> the right dimensions over time... <BR>
  created: '2003-08-20 03:16:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Such sentiments of &#34;evolution&#34; are not uncommon in type design, but
    in the end, since fonts are not animals created by Nature roaming the wilderness
    for food and mates, they seem to me too metaphysical to be reliable. <BR> <BR>Not
    to mention that there are two schools &#40;as mentioned above&#41;: the Classical
    and the Modern - both of which are valid. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-20 06:34:41'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Jos
  created: '2003-08-20 17:32:43'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#34;... took a swipe at Trajan-worship, to the cheer of people like me.&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Hrant <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t know if this was brought up but Matthew Carter
    wrote an article in Printing History a while back about how the lettering on the
    columns was size optimized. The letters are modified at various heights on the
    column so that they look all the same from the perspective of the viewer. Something
    like that. If true, not bad for &#34;ancient&#34; Rome, huh! <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-20 17:55:01'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'I think this is the correct reference: <BR> <BR>Printing History. Whole Number
    26-27 &#40;Volume 13, No. 2 and Volume 14 no. 1&#41; 1991-1992 <BR> <BR>Matthew
    Carter, Theories of Letterform Construction. Part 1. '
  created: '2003-08-20 18:04:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Our Latin alphabet has been designed and redesigned <BR> <BR>Actually,
    it&#39;s only been designed &#40;successfully&#41; once: the Carolingian standardization.
    To me the rest is too subconscious to be called design. What we <i>do</i> design
    is letters, but not the alphabet per se. <BR> <BR>Alphabet design is very rare,
    although in one case -Korean Hangul- it resulted in a writing system that makes
    all others look like village idiots. <BR> <BR>&#62; the most successful types
    of all time are are drawn very closely on the same character widths. <BR> <BR>Do
    you mean the same as the Trajan model, or the same as each other? <BR> <BR>&#62;
    study what has gone before. <BR> <BR>Great advice indeed. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Garald,
    I have that article. And I&#39;d recommend it highly because it contains references
    to all significant [historical] &#34;construction&#34; efforts &#40;which I agree
    are generally misguided, for text at least&#41;. And I wish Carter would write
    part 2 already! <BR> <BR>&#62; not bad for &#34;ancient&#34; Rome, huh! <BR> <BR>Except
    they got that -and most everything else of value- from the Greeks. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-20 18:30:52'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#34;Except they got that -and most everything else of value- from the Greeks.&#34;
    <BR> <BR>And the Greeks got it from? '
  created: '2003-08-20 18:39:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Good question! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-20 20:14:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Back to the original issue: <BR> <BR>&#62; There seems to be an &#40;inate?&#41;
    optimal width for each glyph. <BR> <BR>It seems that the optimal width for a given
    character is a value that can be deviated from safely, upto a point. This point
    depends on the sensibilities of the viewer &#40;which is subjective&#41;. Furthemore,
    the deviation can be controlled to make the font more dynamic. However, the <i>set</i>
    of deviations might have to be consistent, otherwise the harmony is too deep,
    and it will be seen as discord by practically everybody. What I mean is you can&#39;t
    make half the UC Classical and the other Modern. <BR> <BR>As for what the &#34;ideal&#34;
    is, I would say it depends on the structure of the glyph. One obvious example
    is the &#34;B&#34; versus the &#34;D&#34;: the former is narrower because you
    can&#39;t make half-size bowls look nice that wide. But it&#39;s not so simple
    because a &#34;B&#34; with bowls of [roughly] equal height can&#39;t be as wide
    as one with a large lower bowl. <BR> <BR>So there might be a way to quantify the
    optimal widths of characters by first quantifying their structure, <i>but</i>
    taste is subjective, so you could only do that for a given person &#40;and really
    only at a given instant&#41;. So what you could do is make a set of caps where
    the widths please you personally, then make variations of certain characters &#40;like
    make a &#34;B&#34; with a lower/higher middle&#41; and see how that affects your
    ideal width, and formulate some numbers for future use. So the next time you make
    a font, you can draw a single character and &#34;propagate&#34; the ideal widths
    of all the others, based on their other structural determinants. Once you have
    the set of ideal widths, you would work inwards. <BR> <BR>To avoid making the
    solution too personal, you could do this to a &#34;classic&#34; face. For example,
    you could take the Trajan &#34;B&#34;, lower the middle, see how its ideal width
    changes, and use that dataset as the guide for a new font. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>This
    is exactly the sort of thread I think type design needs most now. So I hope many
    people brainstorm about it and delve deeply towards its warm core. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-20 21:56:34'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: How about when language-specific subjectivity comes into it? Would Germans
    prefer it if the CH and CK digraphs used narrower, tighter glyphs &#40;like the
    old blackletter ligatures&#41; than lone C&#39;s, H&#39;s and K&#39;s? How about
    the Dutch with IJ, or the Spanish with CH, RR and LL? <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-08-21 19:46:37'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Duke Ellington&#39;s comment about music &#34;if it sounds good, it is good&#34;
    is how I feel about character proportions. You can intellectualize it all you
    want, but if they look good, they are good.
  created: '2003-08-23 16:10:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: To an individual, sure. But when it comes to pleasing others &#40;which I
    think is the heart of type design&#41;, you have to think about it some more.
    For example, some people like the Classical scheme while others prefer the &#34;Modern&#34;.
    So you have to use such context to improve your design. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-23 17:58:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think there are enough typefaces available in the &#34;Classical&#34; and
    &#34;Modern&#34; theme. <BR> <BR>Time for something else.
  created: '2003-08-23 21:09:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Time for something else. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m all for that! <BR> <BR>But
    just to make sure: we <i>are</i> talking about the widths <BR>that glyphs conform
    to, right? Not letterform style. <BR> <BR>What do people think of Richler&#39;s
    caps, <BR>especially in terms of the widths scheme? <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Something
    new, eh? Hmmm... What about this: <BR> <BR>Since letters are put together to form
    words, and we can appreciate the way a word sets as much as the way a letter sits,
    the set of optimal widths in a writing system depends on linguistics. If the Classical
    widths are seen as optimal for ancient Roman inscriptions &#40;in Latin&#41;,
    they simply can&#39;t be seen as optimal for a contemporary novel. So maybe we
    need a new set of widths? <BR> <BR>That said: <BR>1&#41; There are -as I&#39;m
    fond of stating- two strands of reading: deliberative &#40;where you can consciously
    appreciate shapes&#41; versus immersive &#40;where your reading &#34;firmware&#34;
    takes over, and doesn&#39;t care how sexy that finial is&#41;. As a result, &#34;optimal
    widths&#34; can be [at least] two things... <BR>2&#41; I&#39;ve only thought about
    caps so far... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-24 21:59:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I found something. An article in the 1968 Penrose Annual &#40;which I actually
    mentioned in the &#34;Trapping&#34; thread&#41; by Louis Rosenblum, where he&#39;s
    devised a system to standardize the measure of the relative widths of text fonts.
    The apparent aim being to be able to predict layout and/or save on storage &#40;remember:
    1968&#41;. <BR> <BR>Rosenblum&#39;s style is very terse &#40;he&#39;s an engineer
    by training&#41;, so I&#39;m not exactly sure, but it looks like he&#39;s taken
    measurements of many &#34;classic&#34; fonts and arrived at average relative widths:
    <BR> <BR>Lowercase: <BR> 5: i <BR> 6: f j l <BR> 7: r s t <BR> 8: z e c <BR> 9:
    q g x a o <BR>10: n h u d p b k y v <BR>13: w <BR>15: m <BR> <BR>Uppercase: <BR>
    8: I <BR> 9: J <BR>10: S <BR>11: Z <BR>12: P L F <BR>13: Q O A V B T E C <BR>14:
    G U Y R <BR>15: N H X D K <BR>18: M W <BR> <BR>Numerals: 9 units. <BR> <BR>One
    strange thing is that for a given width the letters listed aren&#39;t alphabetical.
    But there must be a reason behind their orders. My guess is that they&#39;re listed
    in increasing statistical divergence from the given width. <BR> <BR>Rosenblum
    also ties the TTS width system into the discussion, but I couldn&#39;t follow
    that well enough. <BR> <BR>One last thing <BR>In pointing out that metal fonts
    have smaller sizes that are proportionally wider and darker than the larger ones
    &#40;optical scaling&#41;, he says that&#39;s due to practical manufacturing concerns!
    I&#39;d never heard that before. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-08 06:01:21'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Hi All.  <BR> <BR>I posted this resource is a crit a while back. It is the
    proportions for modern capitals as laid out by Morris Fuller Benton and copied/refined
    by Ed Benguiat &#40;as it
  created: '2003-10-08 13:00:54'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Double Post disease... attacks... out... of... nowhe...
  created: '2003-10-08 13:05:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '<i>&#62;Rosenblum&#39;s style is very terse &#40;he&#39;s an engineer by
    training&#41;, so I&#39;m <BR>&#62;not exactly sure, but it looks like he&#39;s
    taken measurements of many <BR>&#62;&#34;classic&#34; fonts and arrived at average
    relative widths: <BR></i> <BR> <BR>Hrant, this looks suspiciously like a Monotype
    matrix layout.  <BR> <BR>The other possibility is that it is the actual TTS width
    specification.  <BR> <BR>-- K. <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-08 14:38:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; this looks suspiciously like a Monotype matrix layout. <BR> <BR>But
    he specifically says it&#39;s different than any existing system. He did however
    use a lot of Monotype fonts in his calculations. One thing he points out is that
    a system limited to 15 widths &#40;as opposed to Monotype&#39;s 18&#41; fits nicely
    into 4 bits of data. <BR> <BR>TTS: It seems like he&#39;s treating TTS as just
    another &#34;font&#34;, in terms of calculating the relationship to his work.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-08 17:23:14'
date: '2003-05-20 01:10:31'
title: Relative Character Widths
...
