---
author:
  name: tsoler
  picture: 110444
body: 'Hello fellows, <BR>two weeks ago i tried to send this message. <BR>As it was
  not possible then &#40;because of server problems&#41; <BR>i do it now. Although,
  as you will notice '
comments:
- author:
    name: tsoler
    picture: 110444
  body: hmm.... <BR>three days and nobody droped a line. <BR>Did i do something wrong?...no,
    i really <BR>mean it! I prefer to know the &#40;hard&#41; truth, <BR>than stay
    in this guilty silence...
  created: '2003-05-22 16:02:03'
- author:
    name: PYMadlon
    picture: 110349
  body: Roughs? They look great to me! <BR> <BR>Difficult to get the subtleties since
    I&#39;m not familiar with the play; but the color is fantastic, I like the crown
    carried through the series and the playful treatment of the dark themes. <BR>
    <BR>For some reason the bucket of poop disturbs me, whereas the tub of blood does
    not. I wonder what that might mean. <BR> <BR>Not much of a criticism, but I&#39;m
    used to looking at sub-par work all day, including my own, so I rather enjoyed
    your posters. <BR> <BR>Cheers!
  created: '2003-05-22 16:29:07'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Christos, good stuff. ;&#41; <BR> <BR>The first one is the one I like more.
    It&#39;s subtler and  <BR>more &#34;graphical&#34; than the other options. The
    stencil  <BR>typeface, I like it a lot &#40;what typeface is it?&#41;. <BR>The
    second one has a good idea, but it seems you  <BR>couldn&#39;t develop it further.
    <BR>I kinda dislike Clarendon used in the third one. And  <BR>btw, I feel the
    same way, Paul. The poop bucket  <BR>disturbs me a little, but I quite like the
    bloody tub.  <BR>Not sure why too. <BR>The fourth one is good, but I think the
    typeface  <BR>&#40;Confidential?&#41; looks a little dated. <BR> <BR>Anyway, I
    enjoyed this posters. Can you tell us  <BR>which one is the final poster for the
    play?
  created: '2003-05-22 16:41:53'
- author:
    name: PYMadlon
    picture: 110349
  body: 'OK, now I&#39;ve been spurred to critique, which is not to say that I don&#39;t
    love these posters anymore. <BR> <BR>I found I didn&#39;t like the first as much
    as the others, though I agree with Eduardo that is is more subtle, and feels more
    dynamic in layout &#40;and I like the marching lemming soldiers&#41;. I think
    it just stands out as so different from the others. And since the others were
    pretty clear, and I don&#39;t like to think, I felt more comfortable with them.
    <BR> <BR>The one thing now that stands out is the vector details &#40;bubbles,
    blood drop&#41; in the blood tub poster. I&#39;m inclined to like the contrast
    with the rough illustrations, but since it doesn&#39;t happen anywhere else &#40;I
    think&#41;, it seems a little out of place. <BR> <BR>I do like the Clarendon &#40;I&#39;m
    assuming it&#39;s Clarendon from Eduardo&#39;s post, since I&#39;m not a top-notch
    typeface id-er. I&#39;ve never seen Clarendon with Greek characters, but I might
    be showing my ignorance&#41; in #3. It gives the type a nice structure for the
    more chaotic illustration to play off of &#40;Unlike #2 &amp; 4, where the type
    kind of blends in&#41;. Plus, I&#39;ve been falling in love with Clarendon again
    these days. <BR> <BR>But I still think these posters are swell! Wouldn&#39;t mind
    a set for my wall. Sorry for the selayed crit. I told you, I don&#39;t like to
    think.'
  created: '2003-05-22 17:09:29'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: the only thing that really stands out as problematic to  <BR>me is the &#42;bubbles&#42;
    on the bloody bath version. every <BR>other element &#40;in the others as well&#41;
    is very rough and  <BR>expressive; the bubbles, however, are very light,  <BR>precise,
    and almost whimsical in a teenage girl sort of  <BR>way. the digital precision
    of the blood also seems to  <BR>conflict a bit, but not so much as the lightness
    in the  <BR>former. <BR> <BR>on the whole, you&#39;ve done a fine job of capturing
    the  <BR>intriguing, lively quality of mid-20th cent modernism. it  <BR>has a
    very Saul Bass mood without sacrificing your own  <BR>voice.
  created: '2003-05-22 17:09:57'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: simultaneous, like-minded critiques from two fellows  <BR>guilted into a statement...
    fantastic!
  created: '2003-05-22 17:14:11'
- author:
    name: PYMadlon
    picture: 110349
  body: Ha ha ha. Not sure you want a mind like this one, though. It hurts!
  created: '2003-05-22 17:15:38'
- author:
    name: tsoler
    picture: 110444
  body: '...you are a fantastic optical audiemce. <BR>You give me what is so precious
    for a designer; <BR>additional dimensions to the personal view. <BR> <BR>I could
    see all the aspects you mentioned  <BR>except the disturbing presence of the poop  <BR>bucket
    &#40;i didn&#39;t know its name in english  <BR>untill now&#41;. Maybe i didn&#39;t
    give you the right  <BR>feeling of the play '
  created: '2003-05-23 10:16:30'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Is there a link for those KP typefaces, Christos? <BR>I&#39;m curious about
    this &#34;Brasil&#34; typeface... Strange name indeed. <BR> <BR>And tell us, what&#39;s
    this mysterious stage element you are talking about? ;-&#41;
  created: '2003-05-23 15:39:44'
- author:
    name: tsoler
    picture: 110444
  body: what&#39;s this mysterious stage element you are talking about... <BR> <BR>Ah,
    my poor syntaxis made its miracle again... <BR>Eduardo i din&#39;t mean what you
    understood. <BR>I meant that the colors of the theater stage  <BR>in the play,
    was an important element to judge  <BR>which poster was the most suitable. I am
    sorry  <BR>for the confusion. <BR> <BR>As for the Kp Brasil, &#34;Kosmopolis&#34;
    the company  <BR>which released them does not exist any more,  <BR>but i think
    you can find the font in  <BR><a href="http://www.fonts.gr" target="_blank">www.fonts.gr</a>
    &#40;cannibal fonts&#41;. <BR> <BR>You are from Brazil, aren&#39;t you. I don&#39;t
    know why  <BR>they called the font Brasil. Maybe it was the  <BR>last font they
    released before they shut down  <BR>the company and flew to Brazil celebrating
    the  <BR>money they owed...who knows...they could be  <BR>your neighboors! <BR>
  created: '2003-05-23 17:33:58'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Funny, Christos. :-&#62; <BR> <BR>Anyway, I found it following your link,
    but <BR>Cannibal changed its name to Stencil CF. <BR>
  created: '2003-05-23 18:59:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think #2 is nearly perfect! Because it&#39;s sort of a comedy &#40;although
    dark&#41;. The only thing I would change is make the tub more lux, like put gold
    lion&#39;s feet on it. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-02 23:21:46'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: <i>&#62;put gold lion&#39;s feet on it.</i> <BR> <BR>Ha, it would be nice.
    :-&#41; <BR>I think the bloody tub is a great idea. <BR>But, considering the lack
    of the additional informations in the poster &#40;dates, place, all the names&#41;,
    and the incoherency between bubbles &#40;geometric&#41; and tub &#40;rough&#41;,
    I think Christos&#39; client probably refused it.
  created: '2003-06-03 14:57:58'
- author:
    name: simon
    picture: 110408
  body: '&#34;I feel the same way, Paul. The poop bucket  <BR>disturbs me a little,
    but I quite like the bloody tub.  <BR>Not sure why too.&#34; <BR> <BR>&#34;&#149;&#149;&#149;&#149;!&#34;
    is Ubu&#39;s first word &#40;and may as well be his last&#41;. This is the strength
    of Jarry&#39;s puerile masterpiece: identifying &#149;&#149;&#149;&#149; as the
    ultimate abiding insult to bourgeois aspiration. In this regard the situation
    at the start of the 21st century is pretty much equivalent to the end of the 19th.
    Recent representations of man-in-league-with-&#149;&#149;&#149;&#149; hardly compare.  Mr.
    Hanky &#40;or Kricfalusi&#39;s urHanky, &#34;Knutty the friendly dump&#34;&#41;
    is a commodified leakage from Ubu&#39;s chamber pot. <BR> <BR>Anyway, love the
    posters &#40;I like 1 and 3 most&#41;. Good work! <BR> <BR>BTW, I made an &#34;Ubu
    centennial&#34; series of sketchbooks in 1996 playing with the spiral, belly,
    hood and hat forms of Jarry&#39;s original drawings; must do something with those
    at some point... <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-04 15:20:42'
- author:
    name: simon
    picture: 110408
  body: 'I appear to have been censored, perhaps not unfairly '
  created: '2003-06-04 15:28:46'
date: '2003-05-20 10:39:27'
title: Ubu Roi
...
