---
author:
  name: Miguel Hernandez
  picture: 110435
body: Hola Amigos, <BR> <BR>I have a theory about this situation, discussed in the
  Build Forums, on a couple of weeks ago <BR> <BR>I receive an email from Hugo Perez
  from the pixietype foundry announcing new fonts with grey effects. <BR> <BR>I was
  trying to contact him about a month ago,  <BR>asking about if they have an authorization
  from FFF or truth in Design for using the FX technique who was created and owned
  by Truth in Design, who is the same as super pixel fonts, Whith no responses. <BR>
  <BR>I can`t understand why pixietype are selling, if they lauch before FFF first
  super pixel fonts, it seems they are making the same super pixel stuff without autorization,
  this behaviour is very suspicious. <BR> <BR>It seems that they buy a font form FFF,open
  in fog, and make the same technique, just changing the name. This is not fair, there
  are a lot of job behind this new greyscale trick, and this guys seems to non stop,
  without giving any credits or licence fee to TiD. <BR> <BR>Please tell me what do
  you think about this topic Typophiles, i dont want to be rude with pixietype or
  Hugo, but i believe in respect of the job behind this technology contribution in
  typography. <BR>    <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>mh.
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'But weren&#39;t you previously saying that TiD&#39;s &#34;technology&#34;
    was no big deal, not a real invention? <BR> <BR>Certainly, if Pixietype <i>did</i>
    swipe the technology &#40;but how can you be sure?&#41; without even giving credit,
    it&#39;s unethical. But without a patent on the part of TiD, it&#39;s not illegal.
    And if they just had the idea of making grayscale fonts by filling in &#34;partial&#34;
    pixels, and they developed their own techniques to do so, it&#39;s probably OK.
    <BR> <BR>Bottom line for me: if we become certain that Pixietype has indeed behaved
    unethically, we should mount a petition campaign. Otherwise it&#39;s more productive
    to spend the time pushing the envelope further. Handmade ClearType bitmaps, anyone?  :-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-29 05:41:31'
- author:
    name: tidchris
    picture: 110188
  body: 'All I have to say about them is, they did a bunch of designs I was looking
    forwarding to doing. So too bad for me. If they have ACTUALLY copied FFF designs
    they should be publicly exposed and pilloried. <BR> <BR>As far as the tech, we
    did it first, they figured we would not come after them. they are right.&#42;
    <BR>Instead: <BR> <BR>In September TiD will launch a new library of original fonts
    guaranteed to work in Flash and Photoshop. <BR> <BR>More official leaks soon.
    <BR>peace please. <BR>-chris <BR> <BR>&#42;Unlike other protections, a patent
    can be enforced on demand. '
  created: '2003-10-29 11:15:03'
- author:
    name: tidchris
    picture: 110188
  body: forwarding haha looking forward.  <BR>Seriously, Dodge Text Bold FX is nice,
    like apple&#39;s Chicago on grey. <BR> <BR>stealers! <BR>-chris <BR>
  created: '2003-10-29 11:22:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: On my Powerbook screen the FX fonts are nearly identical <BR>to the standard
    versions. Does the gray have much impact <BR>on LCD displays? Anyone else with
    an LCD who can confirm?
  created: '2003-10-29 13:50:35'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Even on a CRT monitor, some grey pixels are hard to notice... <BR>And I think
    I still prefer the plain versions, specially in text-sizes.
  created: '2003-10-29 14:21:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'This appears to be nothing more than hand-made anti-aliasing. I was doing
    that in 1988 with Dr. Halo &#40;anyone remember Dr. Halo!? ;o&#41; <BR> <BR>So
    I&#39;m suing all of you. '
  created: '2003-10-29 14:48:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; In September TiD will launch a new library <BR> <BR>Along with a time-reversal
    machine?  ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62; Does the gray have much impact on LCD displays?
    <BR> <BR>You can design for LCDs or CRTs &#40;the latter needing less &#34;splay&#34;
    in the grays&#41;, or try to average out both. Same with Windows/MacOS &#40;the
    latter having a much flatter gamma&#41;. I lean towards the former for both. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; I was doing that in 1988 <BR> <BR>A number of people have done it in
    the past &#40;like de Groot, and Tankard&#41;, but there was no good way of <i>delivering</i>
    it to users. MacOS for one totally ignores bitmaps &#40;except when it crashes
    trying to display them&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-29 15:30:23'
- author:
    name: tidchris
    picture: 110188
  body: No way ... Dr. Halo the 8 bit DOS paint package ... darrel you are way ahead
    of the game. ;] <BR> <BR>A lot of people aren&#39;t going to like the look or
    idea of greyscale pixel fonts. Pixel crispness/crunchiness is a blessing/curse.  <BR>
    <BR>With the TiD system, the fine tuning is up to the typographer. You can tweak
    &#34;splay&#34; in ClearType, MacOS and FreeType, but tuning is basically cooked
    into Super and Ultra Pixel fonts and anything else using the subpixel technique.
    If it&#39;s well-cooked, fewer people will want to adjust the knobs. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    &#62; In September TiD will launch a new library  <BR>&#62; Along with a time-reversal
    machine? ;-&#41;  <BR> <BR>make that November. Somebody give me a brain! <BR>
    <BR>I wrote this cause my email reply to this forum never showed up. If it does,
    see &#34;brain&#34;.
  created: '2003-10-29 22:36:42'
- author:
    name: huguini
  body: 'Hi, <BR>First of all, english is not my original language so, sorry. <BR>All
    I do is add quarter and eighth pixels to a standard pixel font. You can call it
    &#39;pixel font with greys&#39; or &#39;hand made anti aliasing&#39;. <BR>Chris
    Lowery said in another post: &#34;&#34;Super Pixel fonts&#34; describes a patent
    pending technique which provides reliable rendering on all TrueType environments.
    Your grey dot fonts will probably be great but they won&#39;t be &#34;Super Pixel
    fonts&#34; unless you license with us and build them like we do. Hrant is right,
    it takes more than sub-pixels. <BR> <BR>All I do is sub-pixels. I DO NOT use the
    technology that TiD have. So I don&#39;t do Super Pixel Fonts. <BR>I DO NO WANT
    to break any law, do something illegal or steal any technology.  <BR>If I&#39;m
    doing this, sorry, I&#39;ll stop selling fonts with semi-pixels, sub-pixel or
    whatever you want to name it.  <BR> <BR>Thanks <BR>Hugo Perez <BR>Pixietype.com'
  created: '2003-10-30 16:53:24'
- author:
    name: tidchris
    picture: 110188
  body: Hugo, thanks for your comments. Please look for my response on your pixietype
    info address. <BR> <BR>Any developer who wants to create sub-pixel fonts can get
    support, licensing, and a good royalty through TiD&#39;s new site, which will
    launch in November. You do not need to know how to create sub-pixel fonts, only
    to paint all the characters in a GIF. TiD handles the rest. We will publish great
    fonts from anyone.  <BR> <BR>To become a licensed developer, contact me through
    typophile or truth @ truthindesign.com. I apologize for this use of Typophile
    for commercial information. <BR> <BR>-chris
  created: '2003-10-30 17:56:23'
date: '2003-10-29 05:30:30'
title: Pixietype suspiciousTechnique
...
