---
author:
  name: timfm
  picture: 110404
body: Are faces like those of Hoefler Type Foundry&#39;s Proteus Project &#40;esp.
  Leviathan&#41; appropriate choices for poster size printing and larger - up to say
  8x4 foot signage? Do gothic display faces generally perform well at larger sizes
  or are there more appropriate type classifications for such applications? I wonder
  about this because of the small counters and eyes. <BR> <BR> -t
comments:
- author:
    name: timfm
    picture: 110404
  body: was it something I said?
  created: '2003-11-03 23:51:11'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Tim, every time I&#39;ve made a large sign, it hasn&#39;t made that much difference
    because of the techniques of large poster printing. If you got close to a sign
    that was 8x4 you&#39;d see how big the pixels are so they look correct at a distance.
    This is my take on it, Dan
  created: '2003-11-04 18:11:22'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: TIM -- <BR> <BR>It has been my experience that it doesnt really matter. If
    you have, say a text face, something like Warnock Pro, for example, that face
    comes with to &#39;versions&#39; if you will. One, is a text version; the other
    is for display &#40;or basically larger sizes&#41;. Either will work, but the
    later is designed for larger purposes, and asually has more defined serifs, and
    such. <BR> <BR>In the arena of a gothic face, something of the sans family, I
    would say it doesnt really matter. <BR>The only thing you might come across in
    a face like this is &#39;ink traps&#39;, and if the face is designed such, they
    might look quite funny at very large sizes. <BR> <BR>In regards to Dan&#39;s comments,
    I would think something this size would probably be cut from vinyl, then applied
    to the substrate &#40;unless it is digitally printed of course&#41;, so in this
    case you dont have the &#39;pixels&#39; to deal with. <BR> <BR>More info on your
    output process might better define an answer. <BR> <BR>Hope this helps. <BR> <BR>Hildebrant.
  created: '2003-11-05 02:37:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Contrary to Kyle&#39;s comments, don&#39;t be fooled into thinking that a
    display cut of a design will function correctly as a signage typeface. It has
    been my experience that the exact opposite is true. If both a text and display
    cut exist in a design you are considering, you will most likely get a better performance
    from the text cut. <BR> <BR>The finely wrought details that Kyle refers to act
    as a hinderance to readability and legibility. <BR> <BR>That said it all depends
    on the signage you are creating. What are the visual thresholds you expect it
    to function at? <BR>What materials are being used to construct the sign? Retro-reflective,
    backlight, etc.
  created: '2003-11-05 13:23:17'
date: '2003-10-31 03:42:19'
title: Gothics for Signage
...
