---
author:
  name: ling
body: I need some advice pushing my design career into next level. I have an undergrad
  degree in Biochemisry and a grad certificate from Museum School &#40;boston&#41;.
  I started as an intern in a small studio, and gradually became a full time designer
  for 2 years. Besides, I was taking courses at MassArt as well. As I have gained
  more experience and increasingly devoted myself to design, I desperately want to
  push myself, both conceptual and executional skills, into next level. I have huge
  passion in design. Now I am wondering what my next step should be. Should I go to
  grad school? If so, which school? &#40;I have few in mind, ie SVA, RISD, or Portfolio
  Center.&#41; Or should I just keep working in the real business world? Which experience
  is more rewarding? <BR>I do have foundation skills in design and business interaction.
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: if you have the money and desire, keep going to school. <BR>But leave before
    it gets too cozy. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-11-03 22:51:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Ling go to RISD, its close and outstanding. Plus visit this site often lots
    of creative experts here. Dan
  created: '2003-11-03 23:04:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: One reason I might consider going on &#40;continuing&#41; with education,
    would be those with whom I would be learning and those from which I would be learning.
    Consider, peers and educators. Which schools offer leaders/teachers that would
    inspire you to push yourself? Post-graduate and Graduate shouldn&#39;t be about
    enhancing your portfolio, so much as expanding and engaging your mind.
  created: '2003-11-03 23:13:58'
- author:
    name: ling
  body: I have hooked on this site and speak up. I got so much valuable insights.  The
    sense of sharing feels so great. <BR> <BR>I have read some info on the grad programs,
    each school has a very different vison. Some are very theoretical-based, ie RISD.
    I assume a student will gain lots of exploratory pleasure in those programs.  But,
    as I read more about Portfolio Center, the program is very pratical and fun. This
    might help if I want to launch a better career. mh...I donno...just confused...
  created: '2003-11-03 23:21:13'
- author:
    name: dyana
    picture: 110583
  body: 'Ling, I went to RISD for undergraduate school and had an amazing experience.
    However, my opinion of the grad students was not as good. My freshman year most
    of them seemed very intelligent and dedicated, however; by the time I was a senior,
    the new crop of them seemed uninterested in doing any work or learning anything,
    only in getting a degree &#40;not all of them, if they are reading this and know
    where I live. Seriously&#41;. Overall, my opinion of the grad program there is
    mixed. If you&#39;re very dedicated to learning, and look for the teachers who
    will give you the best education, then it might be worth it. I hear Tom Ockerse
    is a great guy to work with. But I&#39;ve heard that Yale has a better reputation
    as a grad school for graphic design and is very similar to the RISD undergraduate
    program. <BR> <BR>Yes, RISD is conceptual and will help you with your execution.
    But it really depends on how much you&#39;re willing to push yourself. The more
    practical stuff - such as learning computer programs, collaborating with clients
    and printers - isn&#39;t what they teach. At least, they didn&#39;t teach stuff
    like that for more than a day when I was there. There were seminars, but we were
    so overloaded with homework no one had time to go. But that kind of stuff is the
    kind of thing you learn with experience - the experience you probably already
    have.  <BR> <BR>Providence is a fantastic city with a great arts scene. I love
    Boston more, but I still miss little Rhody. <BR> <BR>I hope this helps. '
  created: '2003-11-03 23:46:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'If you can possibly afford it, go to the place and talk to students and teachers.
    Your face to face intuition tells you so much that is important that you can&#39;t
    get from brochures.   <BR> <BR>If you are thinking of European schools, that might
    be more difficult, but actually flying to Europe is probably no more expensive
    than to California from Boston. '
  created: '2003-11-03 23:48:29'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: A school is only as good as the instructors that are there at the time you
    attend. Do you have a specialty you wish to pursue, e.g., illustration, or typography?
    I&#39;d shop around for people that are exceptional teachers in your specialty.
    A Masters degree would allow you to teach, but I&#39;m not sure if that&#39;s
    what you&#39;re after.  <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a book out you might check out called
    &#34;The Education of a Graphic Designer&#34; by Steven Heller. <BR> <BR>Art schools
    focus more on concept in upper division classes. But that assumes you have the
    prerequisites of being able to draw well, have a good background in color theory
    and art history, cognitive skills, plus decent computer skills. And don&#39;t
    forget business classes, Lord know how many designers go under each year from
    poor business practices.
  created: '2003-11-04 01:28:29'
- author:
    name: ling
  body: Thank you all for the advice.  <BR> <BR>I do not have a chance to get a 4
    yr BFA education. I really wish I had now. I have learnt on my own and from work
    mostly, and I know this is not enough. I know the best is to surround myslef with
    great talented people. That&#39;s why I think about going back to school.  <BR>
    <BR>This is where i am now <a href="http://lingwong.home.mindspring.com/" target="_blank">http://lingwong.home.mindspring.com/</a>
    <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-11-04 03:52:21'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Two friends of mine are in the graphic design MFA program at RISD. They speak
    very highly of it.
  created: '2003-11-14 01:25:53'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Hello biochemist turned graphic designer. <BR>I&#39;m a physisist turned graphic
    designer. <BR> <BR>No BFA or MFA. I think the place it makes the most difference
    is in my own head. Career wise, it really is about the work. The degree might
    open a few doors. <BR> <BR>If I was to go back now, it would be for type. Not
    sure where, but I&#39;ve always wanted to live in England again &#40;Reading?&#41;.
    In the states I think I&#39;d choose Yale, then perhaps RISD. Not sure about them
    for MFA with Type focus. <BR> <BR>Randy
  created: '2003-11-14 02:14:01'
date: '2003-11-03 22:47:17'
title: Where is the best design education?
...
