---
author:
  name: kegler
  picture: 110368
body: Here are some photos from the recent &#34;Hidden Typography&#34; St. Bride Conference
  in London. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.p22.com/stbride/StBride2003.html" target="_blank">http://www.p22.com/stbride/StBride2003.html</a>
  <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Richard thanks for the posting, I love the Starbucks bashing. My last P22
    purchase was an Indie book and a Construstivist Coffee mug. Dan
  created: '2003-11-06 22:59:01'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: The vague bashing will be elevated to full-disclosure if our most recent attempts
    to get Starbucks to straighen up and fly right are unsuccessful. It&#39;s a long
    story but we have been getting a major runaround from them on their major use
    of the Cezanne font with no apparent purchase ..and don&#39;t get me started on
    Team-One&#39;s use of Cezanne for a Lexus Campaign... They bought a single copy
    from myfonts AFTER we asked about their flash animation on the Lexus site.   <BR>
    <BR>Perhaps I can should steal all of my groceries and then pay them IF they ask
    me for it.... <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-11-06 23:13:54'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: '...and thank you Dan Weaver for your support! '
  created: '2003-11-06 23:18:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Richard the answer is to tell the check-out clerk that the guy/gal behind
    you will pay for the groceries. Team-One is so wrong. I also bought your font
    Dearest which I like better than Cezanne.
  created: '2003-11-06 23:21:56'
- author:
    name: kennmunk
    picture: 110488
  body: We should print up &#39;STOLEN FONT&#39; stickers and slap them on to whatever.  A
    bit hard for flash animes though. And nobody but type designers would care...
  created: '2003-11-08 08:27:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Starbucks recently went into Paris and the NPR radio broadcast about it was
    centered on the fact that they have a no smoking policy and Parisians love to
    drink coffee and smoke. Such high minded people at Starbucks wanting to protect
    you from second hand smoke, I bet they don&#39;t know their ad agency is using
    a pirated font for their promotions. I think an email to the corporate office
    will fix this problem. They do want to sell more franchises and don&#39;t want
    negative publicity, Dan '
  created: '2003-11-08 13:04:22'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: Actually, It is my considered opinion that they do know their own in-house
    <BR>ad agency is using improperly licensed or unlicensed fonts for their <BR>promotions,
    products and in-store display systems. Many E-mails, letters, <BR>phone calls
    to the corporate office and their lawyers have alerted them to <BR>the problem
    and it has not fixed this problem. They do want to sell more <BR>franchises but
    possibly don&#39;t care about negative publicity.
  created: '2003-11-08 13:17:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Thats downright terrible Richard, they only make a ton of money hand over
    fist. No Starbucks here, I joke you need Star Bucks for their coffee anyway. It
    sounds like you almost have to picket the corporate offices or even better get
    a radio article by NPR on the subject.  '
  created: '2003-11-08 16:53:03'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: This is the same Starbucks that sued a poor independent <a href="http://www.tmcm.com/">cartoonist</a>
    for a clear parody of their logo.
  created: '2003-11-08 17:25:05'
- author:
    name: David K
    picture: 113907
  body: "Hello,\r\nI d like to see the pictures. The link is broken.\r\n\r\nPS: Dan
    Now in Paris it s illegal to smoke in Bar and Coffee.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 10:57:57'
date: '2003-11-06 22:39:41'
title: Hidden Typography exposed
...
