---
author:
  name: tsprowl
  picture: 110458
body: is scary! <BR> <BR>this came to me from another list - don&#39;t know if its
  been mentioned here...I just had to post it...its so funny. <BR>&#40;clip&#41; <BR>Mood-Supporting
  Typeface Manipulation <BR> <BR>Looking at the typesetting for various books over
  the years it&#39;s become apparent that typeface can be used to support the mood
  of a message. An author should be able to select a section of text in a word processor
  and choose from menu items like Tense, Suspenseful, Angry, or Serene and have that
  supported by things like amount of kerning, serifs, even-ness of character spacing,
  line spacing, italicization, line weight, and character shape. The author should
  only have to worry about mood, not how the mood is achieved. <BR> <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;Thus the typesetting system would have to make an ongoing series of
    changes to keep renewing the desired transient effect. <BR> <BR>Like smell. The
    muffin shop located in the subway continuously vented the air from its ovens into
    the underground mall. But that was not sufficiently motivating, because once people
    had been in the mall for 15 seconds, they would tune out the marvelous aroma as
    &#34;background&#34;. So the muffin shop would vent periodically, to keep potential
    customers aware. <BR> <BR>But continuous text is surely not like that, the premise
    being that typographic nuance is subconscious, yet still meaningful.'
  created: '2003-11-14 21:47:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: If too much &#34;design&#34; is put into words typeset in texts to be read,
    for me, it becomes more e.e.cummings and less j.k.rowling. &#40;not a good comparison,
    just a quick one.&#41; If I&#39;m reading a long text, it is because I want to
    learn or I want to let my imagination run wild. I certainly don&#39;t want the
    text to suddenly change when some is yelling or laughing.
  created: '2003-11-14 22:14:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I certainly don&#39;t want the text to suddenly change when some[one]
    is yelling <BR> <BR>What&#39;s &#34;suddenly&#34;? <BR>What if it changes subtly,
    like let&#39;s say from Adobe Jenson to Downer&#39;s Iowan? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-15 00:42:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I don&#39;t think that &#34;most people&#34; would even notice this change.
    This amount of change would probably just be a waste of energy.
  created: '2003-11-15 00:46:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'But don&#39;t you think: <BR>1&#41; There&#39;s a difference between conscious
    appreciation versus what our subconscious can absorb during immersive reading?
    <BR>2&#41; People snap out of immersion periodically, and at that time they can
    appreciate even certain things about a text font consciously? <BR> <BR>If you&#39;re
    right, then we should just stop making text fonts... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-15 00:50:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Before one stops designing text fonts, one should probably stop babbling about
    on this thread.
  created: '2003-11-15 02:43:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I don&#39;t get your point. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a difference
    between display and text fonts. Anybody who can&#39;t see that has a black hole
    where his theory should be. Theory is no replacement for practical experience,
    but only theory can help forge new ground, the prerequisite of cultural progress
    &#40;as opposed to merely paying the bills&#41;. <BR> <BR>This difference between
    text and display affects the nature of expressiveness. What I mean for example
    is that Massin&#39;s &#34;concrete typography&#34; stuff -which to me has always
    seemed deathly boring, because it&#39;s so obvious- is only partially related
    to expressiveness in text design, which has to be supremely subtle to work right.
    <BR> <BR>For a long time I&#39;d been looking for a text counterpart to the Massin
    stuff, and Avital Ronell&#39;s efforts &#40;like &#34;The Telephone Book&#34;&#41;
    were interesting, but still largely in the realm of display. I ended up finding
    &#40;thanks to a Typo-L member&#41; one single instance -but a superb one- of
    what I was looking for, in the unlikeliest of places: a trashy fantasy novel!
    It&#39;s called &#34;The Interior Life&#34;, and in it the author, Katherine Blake
    &#40;an alias&#41;, who also directed the typography, uses different fonts &#40;all
    texty&#41; to express the mundane versus exciting components of a contemporary
    housewife&#39;s medieval romantic adventures. It&#39;s a 300-page novel with a
    lot of interweaving of realities so to speak, so it must have been a lot of work
    to set in such an elaborate system, and there can&#39;t even be any proof that
    it actually works! But just the fact that somebody &#40;who isn&#39;t even a professional
    designer&#41; has done it makes me happy, and really, if you don&#39;t believe
    it can work, you can&#39;t believe making new text fonts is worth the effort.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-15 06:21:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: There are a few other examples of different text faces being used in the same
    book, although not for emotive purposes. In A.S. Byatt&#39;s <i>Babel Tower</i>
    the novel within the novel is set in a different typeface, and in the first chapter
    of Umberto Eco&#39;s <i>Baudolino</i> different typefaces are used to indicate
    different texts in a palimpsest, including remnants of erased text.
  created: '2003-11-15 07:26:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Chip Kidd&#39;s <i>The Cheese Monkeys</i> starts out in Apollo and at some
    &#40;presumably key&#41; point in the novel changes to a Bodoni &#40;I think it
    was&#41;. It seemed more like an affectation than anything else, and I don&#39;t
    recall ever really figuring out what the significance was of either specific face.
    <BR> <BR>Chip Kidd&#39;s work as a designer of book jackets is somewhat legendary.
    I remember, however, being not really that impressed with the interior scheme.  <BR>
    <BR>I just noticed that the book is available in a digital version for Microsoft
    Reader. I wonder if they attempted to preserve the design conceits. <BR> <BR>--
    K.
  created: '2003-11-15 16:38:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; In A.S. Byatt&#39;s Babel Tower the novel within the novel is set in
    a different typeface <BR> <BR>I&#39;m curious: what were the nature of the stories,
    and the typefaces used? <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>&#62;  I don&#39;t recall ever really
    figuring out what the significance was of either specific face. <BR> <BR>In the
    case of the Blake book it seems to make sense: she uses a pretty generic texty
    Modern for the housewife parts, but Weiss &#40;which to me at least does look
    somewhat medieval, while remaining readable&#41; is used for the alternate/adventurous
    reality. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-15 16:53:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'In my edition of <i>Babel Tower</i>, the main story is set in Bembo; there
    are a lot of narrative threads, but one involves the principal character becoming
    involved in the legal defence of a novel charged with obscenity. Large sections
    of the novel in question are interwoven into the narrative, and are set in Joanna.
    The contrast works very well in the well-printed hard cover edition: both types
    are good text faces, and Joanna nicely captures the modernity of the novel within
    the novel. It works less well in the paperback edition, in which the text is too
    small and too badly printed for the difference between the types to be obvious
    to the average reader.'
  created: '2003-11-15 21:32:03'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: I donno but if a novel needs mood supporting typefaces - maybe its not a very
    good novel to begin with. <BR> <BR>I agree with Tiffany - function before form
    here. your reading a story! On top of that - defining the mood with pre-sets such
    as typography might even diminish its worth. Most people have made up their own
    imagery that they like to escape into when picking up a book. If your messing
    with it and explaining to them exactly how &#34;scary&#34; or &#34;angry&#34;
    the mood is in this paragraph then you&#39;ve just changed the readers path which
    was flowing just fine and pretty organically until you changed the face. <BR>
    <BR>if it calls for such intrusive visual clues like that perhaps it should be
    a movie instead. <BR>
  created: '2003-11-16 18:37:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; if a novel needs mood supporting typefaces - maybe its not a very good
    novel to begin with. <BR> <BR>1&#41; What exactly is &#34;needs&#34;? Versus &#34;benefits
    from&#34;. What is a &#34;good novel&#34;, to whom? How is the typographer&#39;s
    responsability relieved by a bad novel? Doesn&#39;t a bad novel need all the help
    it can get? <BR>2&#41; If a novel only needs one typeface, why wouldn&#39;t all
    novels need the same face? What&#39;s the point of a typographer&#39;s job? <BR>
    <BR>&#62; explaining to them exactly how &#34;scary&#34; or &#34;angry&#34; the
    mood is <BR> <BR>Not &#34;exactly&#34; - that&#39;s display typography. I&#39;m
    talking about a much more subtle level, like the difference between Utopia and
    Weiss for example. Unlike the Massin stuff it&#39;s not intrusive. The question
    remains however if it actually has any effect at all. If it doesn&#39;t, then
    there&#39;s no point making [more] text fonts. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-16 23:29:18'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: '<i>&#62; if a novel needs mood supporting typefaces - maybe  <BR>its not
    a very good novel to begin with.</i> <BR> <BR>I agree with Hrant here: I think
    certain types of  <BR>novels which feature stories within stories, parallel  <BR>stuff
    and whatnot might benefit from unconventional  <BR>setting and variations in typefaces
    &#40;re: Hrant&#39;s  <BR>example &#34;The Interior Life&#34;&#41;. I&#39;m fairly
    certain it has  <BR>an effect, and if well-balanced without hindering  <BR>the
    flow of reading.'
  created: '2003-11-17 12:08:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: I have no problem with mixing typefaces to elucidate stories within stories,
    parallel stuff, and whatnot. As far as I am concerned this can be done as structural
    typography, which need not have anything to do with overtly expressive typography.  <BR>
    <BR>But the kind of &#34;mood-supporting&#34; typography which I understand to
    be the original basis of this thread strikes me as akin to a dramatic reading,
    complete with theatrical effects. In general, I don&#39;t care for it myself.
    <BR> <BR>To continue the metaphor, selecting a typeface for a book &#40;here I&#39;m
    thinking mostly of a &#34;reading&#34; book -- as opposed to reference, or how-to,
    or coffee-table&#41; is not unlike casting a voice actor for a book-on-tape. To
    a certain extent, casting just the right voice may enhance the listener&#39;s
    experience of the text. And, certainly, casting a poor voice actor will get in
    the way of listening. But beyond a basic level of competence, it probably makes
    a small and subtle, if any, difference. <BR> <BR>But there will be no point to
    having James Earl Jones read these certain passages while Jeremy Irons breaks
    in to read those others. Unless, like I said, you&#39;re casting a dramatic reading
    -- in which case you have a different animal, and most likely not what the author
    had in mind. <BR> <BR>-- K. <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-11-17 13:27:51'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: 'If the story sucks, no amount of typographical trickery will save it. If
    it&#39;s good, none will be necessary. <BR> <BR>Piers Anthony wrote some S.F.
    novels where the aliens spoke in English, for the convenience of the reader, but
    changed the quotes to signify language changes -- #hello# or &amp;hello&amp;.
    That was pretty cool but it wasn&#39;t necessary, it was just for fun.'
  created: '2003-11-17 14:08:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: John, nothing is ever so absolute. And one man&#39;s soup is another man&#39;s
    poison. <BR> <BR>A typographer&#39;s responsability is to apply his skills, knowledge
    and talent to make the reading experience as good as possible &#40;with subtlety
    admittedly being a key ingredient&#41;, and richness of expression is generally
    relevant. It doesn&#39;t matter how good/bad you or I think the content is. <BR>
    <BR>In the same way that different books benefit from different font choices,
    different facets of a given book can benefit from different fonts. Otherwise we
    don&#39;t really need designers. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-11-17 17:38:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I realize I&#39;m resurrecting this thread from the bottom, but I&#39;ve been
    away, so forgive my lateness with this comment. <BR> <BR>Have any of you read
    <i><a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0375703764/ref=sib_dp_pt/102-4692538-5006533#reader-link">House
    of Leaves</a></i> by Mark Danielewski? It&#39;s an example book design &#40;its
    interior&#41; that becomes actively and even inextricably woven into the narrative.
    <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0375703764/ref=sib_dp_pt/102-4692538-5006533#reader-page">Here&#39;s</a>
    a good example of a few of the more conservative type styles in action. You have
    the narrator in Courier and the text of a manuscript he&#39;s reconstructing in
    one serif, and the editor in another &#40;I don&#39;t have it with me to venture
    a guess&#41;. Then, whenever the word &#39;house&#39; appears, it&#39;s in blue
    &#40;or grey, depending on the edition&#41;. You can also see the labrynthian
    footnotes coming into play. There are also sections that have red strikethrough
    to indicated changes made by the manuscript
  created: '2003-12-17 16:26:02'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: So why wouldn&#39;t Snooky&#39;s idea work? And why is the idea <BR>being
    rubbished from the outset? Just because it hasn&#39;t  <BR>been done effectively
    or properly yet, is no reason to  <BR>assume that it won&#39;t. I reckon the guy
    is on to an excellent <BR>idea. The changes would have to be subtle and rely on  <BR>gestalt
    to work. To my underdstanding, too little is known <BR>about the underlying emotions
    of reading to discredit this. <BR> <BR>kris
  created: '2003-12-17 21:55:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: 'There are a few reasons &#40;from my understanding&#41; that Snookie&#39;s
    idea wouldn&#39;t work. First, the effect would be so subtle and so out of place
    &#40;unexpected&#41; in a novel full of running text, that all it would likely
    do is register as an odd visual aberration that makes reading more difficult or
    confusing, rather than more &#39;experiential&#39;. <BR> <BR>Without tapping into
    a certain degree of conscious comprehension &#40;and overt design manipulation&#41;,
    the effect would be uncontrollable. The landscape of the page in a novel &#40;to
    me&#41; is too susceptible/ sensitive to visual changes for the effect to work
    on a subtle text level. How is the reader going to pick up the purpose the individual
    contrasts spread over an entire novel? The interrelationship &#40;gestalt, I suppose&#41;
    would be very difficult to maintain, if not impossible, particularly if they need
    to change the subtle effects regularly to maintain their effect, as '
  created: '2003-12-19 17:28:52'
date: '2003-11-14 16:32:33'
title: A little bit of knowledge
...
