---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' Just like it says: ben-gui-at &#40;bengwat&#41; '
comments:
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Gs in Dutch are kind of like &#39;huuchch&#39; as far as I can tell. But
    there is lots of gutteral stuff going on. So yea,.. Hchherrit Noooooordzay is
    probably pretty close. '
  created: '2001-12-18 20:56:51'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: ' The Dutch g is pronounced in one of two ways, <BR>depending on who&#39;s
    speaking and where. It&#39;s <BR>either the same as the German &#34;ach-laut&#34;
    in <BR>&#34;Bach&#34; and  the Scottish &#34;loch,&#34; or it&#39;s the <BR>exact
    same sound voiced. The &#34;voiced&#34; part is <BR>the difference between the
    English k &#40;unvoiced <BR>palatal plosive&#41; and the English g &#40;voiced
    <BR>palatal plosive&#41;. The ach-laut is an unvoiced <BR>palatal fricative, and
    the Dutch g, when not <BR>pronounced the same as the ach-laut, is a <BR>voiced
    palatal fricative. <BR> <BR>I spent weeks and weeks walking around trying <BR>to
    train myself to make the voiced version,  <BR>scaring lots of people in the process,
    and <BR>when I finally got to the Netherlands, everyone <BR>I heard speaking Dutch
    was using the unvoiced <BR>version. My time would have been better spent <BR>on
    Dutch vocabulary. <BR> <BR>Another thing to watch out for is the ch sound. <BR>In
    German it&#39;s pronounced one of two ways, but <BR>in Dutch it&#39;s only pronounced
    one way &#40;the same <BR>as the ach-laut, and never voiced.&#41; <BR> <BR>--John
    <BR>  with an otherwise unused BA in German '
  created: '2001-12-28 16:48:08'
date: '2001-11-19 16:59:59'
title: Archive through December 28, 2001
...
