---
author:
  name: Dan Weaver
body: I am from America and I was listening to a radio station today raising money
  for feeding people who are poor. It was started by Harry Chapin and the co-founder
  was discussing the people who are contacting the organization for help. It seems
  that the majority of cities that have been contacting the organization are from
  army bases. Families of soldiers are poor and need help to be fed, why, because
  the men who joined the army don&#39;t have educational skills other than being soldiers.
  Its a shame. The Bush administration should be ashamed.
comments:
- author:
    name: hello_caleb
    picture: 110315
  body: unlisted soldiers have been getting stiffed in pay looong before bush came
    into office. you can&#39;t really pin that on him, but i do agree with you. they
    need to make more money. but think of like this. they know ahead of time how much
    money they will make. its not like its a suprise to them. but i say give em more
  created: '2003-11-25 23:35:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: The army provides PLENTY of educational opportunities. I paid for school via
    the Army. The reason they don&#39;t make a lot of money is because they don&#39;t
    get paid a lot as soldiers. As Caleb mentions, this has been going on for a long
    time. Though Bush hasn&#39;t done anything to change that he has arguably made
    it worse. <BR> <BR>But, really, what does this have to do with typography? Isn&#39;t
    their a better forum for this type of post?
  created: '2003-11-26 15:50:31'
date: '2003-11-25 23:16:17'
title: Non Typographic
...
