---
author:
  name: matteson
  picture: 110454
body: So I&#39;m thinking of buying the Czech Type Library from Storm &amp; I was
  wondering what people&#39;s opinions were of it. I did a quick search through Typophile
  &amp; saw that a few people actually have it, and some have used some of the faces
  in it. <BR> <BR>Specifically, are there faces that work really well for long amounts
  of text? I&#39;m thinking specifically of Tyfa &amp; Regent. I&#39;m mildly worried
  about how mannered Storm&#39;s faces are - i.e., Serapion &amp; Biblon - and how
  that would affect their suitability for longer copy. Oddly, my eye finds Preissig
  easier to cope with than either of these. <BR> <BR>Anyhow, just thought I&#39;d
  ask before my wallet becomes $200 lighter ;-&#41;
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: The Storm types exhibit a rare combination of high craftsmanship and free
    spirit. They also tend to exhibit very individualistic takes on historical models
    &#40;which is great because we already have too many straight-laced takes on most
    models&#41;. Plus they&#39;re rare. <BR> <BR>Buy recommendation. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-12-02 22:14:31'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: <i>too many straight-laced takes on most models</i> <BR> <BR>That&#39;s a
    good point. In fact, I&#39;ve been wavering between getting the Czech Library
    or, instead, the Jannon/Baskerville/Walbaum collection. I think I&#39;ll stick
    with the Czech Library for now &amp; probably [hopefully] get JBW sometime next
    year. <BR> <BR>Thanks for the recommendation.
  created: '2003-12-02 22:21:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I can recommend the Czech Type Library. And, further, I can testify that Tyfa
    is a wonderfully idiosyncratic face in which to set a book.
  created: '2003-12-03 17:29:43'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: Hmm. So I bought the Czech Library last night. Love it, but there are a few
    odd problems. Some of the fonts are missing, and several don&#39;t show up in
    PDFs. Or, rather, they show up as a line of dots. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m figuring the
    self-extracting archive might be corrupted &#40;?&#41;. Never run into this before,
    so what&#39;s the protocal for something like this? Should I contact MyFonts where
    I bought it, or Storm Type directly? Or does it matter? <BR> <BR>And thanks for
    the recommendation of T&#0253;fa, Tiffany. I&#39;ll definitely keep that in mind.
  created: '2003-12-03 19:48:04'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: Consider MyFonts contacted. <BR> <BR>Please send full configuration setup
    to &#60;help at myfonts period com&#62;. We&#39;ll run some tests and perhaps
    forward your mail to Storm if that&#39;s ok with you. <BR> <BR>-- Laurence &#40;from
    MyFonts.com&#41;
  created: '2003-12-03 21:25:27'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: '&#60;font class=&#34;dontLookLikeCrap&#34;&#62;I bought the Czech Type Library
    last month... it is fantastic. My favourite is Tyfa. Yes, very ideosyncratic.
    I love Serapion, but what to do with it? Not setting long texts, surely &#40;?&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>I ran into some problems with some of the fonts in the library... family
    linking, etc. But I solved it by re-juggling them in FontLab. But for some reason
    the OSF and SC fonts of Regent live with the multilingual fonts at the bottom
    of my font menus. Why is that? They did cause a few glitches as well &#40;qutting
    Word&#41;. Laurence, could you tell Storm this while you&#39;re at it as well?
    Thanks!&#60;/font&#62;'
  created: '2003-12-03 21:47:09'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: Thanks Laurence. I&#39;ll be sending this directly.
  created: '2003-12-03 22:26:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Nathan, <BR> <BR>I had the same problem, the fonts becoming rows of dots,
    with a different font from a different foundry. The solution that I found, although
    a right pain in the bottom, was to use acrobat distiller 5 ... the fault was with
    using distiller pro &#40;6&#41;. '
  created: '2003-12-03 23:51:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The row of dots in pdfs means the font hasn&#39;t embedded; some foundries
    disable font embedding in PDFs. <BR> <BR>So it might not be just a Distiller issue.
  created: '2003-12-04 18:02:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Do you think, Nick, that Acrobat Pro is more a respecter of fonts that allow,
    or not, embedding? Is this why I couldn&#39;t get a certain font to embed, but
    when I distilled it through Acrobat 5 it did work? I&#39;m always amazed and impressed
    by technology.
  created: '2003-12-04 18:16:29'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: I thought that Storm allowed embedding though. Well, that is, I haven&#39;t
    read anything in the EULA that explicitly <i>dis</i>allows it. Plus, when you
    open them in FL it says that the font&#39;s embeddable. <BR> <BR>What&#39;s also
    wierd is that most of the fonts in the Library show up fine in the PDF. And Regent
    II Caps Regular doesn&#39;t embed, but the other 3 styles in the family do. Wierd
    stuff like that. <BR> <BR>Anyway, I&#39;m waiting to hear from MyFonts. That is
    an interesting question about the differences between Acrobat 5 &amp; 6 - I&#39;d
    be curious to know.
  created: '2003-12-04 18:24:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Tiff, I don&#39;t know.  <BR>I try to avoid &#34;upgrading&#34; software if
    it does everything I need it to. I&#39;m still using Acrobat 4.
  created: '2003-12-04 18:31:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Nathan --&#62; I&#39;ve just tried embedding a few of the Storm faces and
    it worked. <BR> <BR>Nick --&#62; And I&#39;m the idiot that upgrades the second
    it is available. =D
  created: '2003-12-04 18:48:38'
date: '2003-12-02 21:17:48'
title: Storm&#39;s Czech Type Library
...
