---
author:
  name: Dan Weaver
body: 809 Area Code <BR> <BR>We actually received a call last week from the 809 area
  code. The woman said &#34;Hey, this is Karen. Sorry I missed you--get back to us
  quickly. <BR>Have something important to tell you.&#34;
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Damn Canadians, them and their area-code swipin&#39; islands.  ;-&#41; <BR>BTW,
    where&#39;s 284 and 876? <BR> <BR>And I wonder how much they bribed US Senators
    to give foreign <BR>countries &#34;native&#34; area codes... Must&#39;ve been
    a real sweet deal. <BR>- &#34;Hey, you pass this law, and we&#39;ll give you a
    beachfront palace - deal?&#34; <BR>- &#34;What a stupid question - you don&#39;t
    have to be so nice - that&#39;s my <i>job</i>.&#34; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-12-03 21:48:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Hrant, to show how small the world has become I got this email from a friend
    from China. I have no idea where these area codes are from, but it seems someone
    wants to spread some holiday joy &#40;for themselves&#41;. As for politics one
    New Jersey canadate for the state house spent a record, over 4 million dollars
    to get that office and thats not even a national post. '
  created: '2003-12-03 22:01:15'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: <a href="http://www.snopes.com/inboxer/scams/809.htm" target="_blank">http://www.snopes.com/inboxer/scams/809.htm</a>
  created: '2003-12-03 22:04:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Great link Chris!
  created: '2003-12-03 22:13:34'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Snopes is great for stuff like this.  Especially all those other ones that
    aren&#39;t true and get people all paranoid.
  created: '2003-12-04 05:25:10'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: I feel it&#39;s my duty to play Geography Police and point out that the Bahamas
    and the British Virgin Islands are two totally different island groups. Both,
    however, have blue skies, soft breezes, sandy beaches, gin-clear waters that are
    warm and welcoming ... [sigh] ... just thinking about it lowers my productivity
    by more than 9.4% &#40;annual rate&#41;. <BR> <BR>If I could figure out a scam
    -- phone or otherwise -- that would keep me in beer and mangos on the caribbean,
    I&#39;d be there in a heartbeat.
  created: '2003-12-04 16:37:06'
- author:
    name: interrobang
  body: '&#34;Damn Canadians, them and their area-code swipin&#39; islands. ;-&#41;&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Hmm... Witty quips really aren&#39;t your thing, are they? Just in case
    you care, the British Virgin Islands are &#42;British&#42;. I can see how that
    may be confusing... Also, for future reference, canadians do not live in igloos,
    and I personally, have never had direct experience with hockey. Eh?! <BR> <BR>&#40;Of
    course, as they say, ignorance is bliss... You must be very happy...&#41;'
  created: '2003-12-08 01:13:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>We must read or watch a news of scams or even malaysia fraud that could
    affects to your lifestyle and thinks of not to negotiate to any strangers.</cite>\r\n\r\nImagine,
    A lawyer in Los Angeles who can't speak English.\r\n\r\nOh, wait... a lawyer..."
  created: '2013-01-16 03:42:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Three-digit area codes with a 0 or 1 in the middle are a feature of the zone
    of the world with 1 as its country code. (Now abandoned because of the need for
    more numbers.) This includes the United States, Canada, and the Carribean. Prior
    to Castro, Cuba was in this area as well, under the 809 area code, which originally
    covered all the Carribean before being confined to the Dominican Republic.
  created: '2013-01-16 03:45:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "LA is the only city in the world where the tourists speak the local language
    better than the locals.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 03:50:50'
date: '2003-12-03 21:26:39'
title: Important news about a scam
...
