---
author:
  name: mike gastin
  picture: 110273
body: Just wondering how many Typophiles also mess around with Letterpress work. <BR>
  <BR>Anyone here own a press? Produce work on it? <BR> <BR>I know the Geralds do
  ... anyone else? <BR> <BR>If so, what equipment do you have ...etc.?
comments:
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: 'Mike: <BR> <BR>I have been working on the letterpress printing of books.
    Have completed a book of selected poems by E. Pauline Johnson; Dickens&#34; A
    Christmas Carol. Am presently working on Mark Twain&#39;s The Adventures of Tom
    Sawyer. <BR>I&#39;ve cut a new roman typeface for the latter, which I am casting
    at my foundry for the book. <BR> <BR>Equipment: <BR>    20&#34; Reprex Proof Press
    &#40;poor man&#39;s Vandercook <BR>    14x22 Chandler &amp; Price Platen press
    <BR>    11&#34; Potter Proof Press <BR>    Chandler &amp; Price Paper Cutter 22&#34;
    <BR>    Separate Little book bindery &#40;converted garage&#41; <BR>    Thompson
    Type Caster <BR>    British Monotype Super Caster <BR>    American Monotype 15x15
    Composition Caster <BR>    Approx 150 boxes of Display flat mats and Super <BR>        Caster
    mats, plus 40 comp diecases of mats    <BR>    Pantographs: Weibking/Ludlow; Taylor
    Hobson; <BR>        Ogata RS 260 &#40;currently making missing parts for Ogata&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Searching with little hope of success, for a 14x22 Colts <BR>    Armory
    or Laureate or Hartford platen press. <BR> <BR>Other work in progress: drawings
    for Cree language which I will cut in punch form at about 16 point. &#40;long
    term&#41; <BR> <BR>Currently casting the 12 to 36 point sizes of Bulmer Roman
    and Italic for Nemo Press. <BR> <BR>If you are visiting Vancouver, tours welcome.
    <BR>     <BR>Jim Rimmer <BR> <BR> '
  created: '2003-12-08 18:04:16'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Mike <BR> <BR>I am no longer in the hot metal industry. <BR> <BR>That is not
    a report I am happy to make. Lanston suffered from a tidal wave in Prince Edward
    Island. It destroyed the plant, car warehouse and home. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-12-08 19:45:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'BTW, it&#39;s hard to recommend this enough: <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/show.pl?72/21991"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/show.pl?72/21991</a> <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-12-08 20:37:02'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: Sorry to hear that Gerald, the weather seems to be going nuts everywhere.
    <BR> <BR>Anyways, I&#39;d encourage visiting Jim in Vancouver! <BR>I really enjoyed
    the visit and the &#34;stuff&#34; he showed us there, thank you Jim! <BR>
  created: '2003-12-08 20:45:10'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Gerald G - so sorry to hear about the wreck. It must have been like having
    a loved one pass away. <BR> <BR>Any plans to restart? <BR> <BR>Hrant - thanks
    for the Lang link. I am East Coast ....so, it would not work for me. I have had
    some contact with Harold Kyle of Boxcar Press in Syracuse Ny and he offers classes
    from time to time. I want to attend one ... <BR> <BR>Right now I am keeping my
    eye out for a press and so on. Would like to set up a printing studio and mess
    around.
  created: '2003-12-08 21:27:15'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Jim R, <BR> <BR>Any samples of your recent projects on line? I would love
    to see some! <BR> <BR>BTW - I seem to remember your name from a letterpress listserve.
    Nice to see you here as well.
  created: '2003-12-08 21:35:49'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: Mike <BR> <BR>I have nothing online that you could look at. Don&#39;t even
    have a website to display the digital fonts on. Dumb, Huh? <BR>I have more than
    five years of dilligent effort into the digital fonts which makes up a decent
    sized list of 20 font families, comprising 90 fonts. They are for the most part
    text faces. Split about 50/50 between my original designs and revival designs.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;m trying to find the time to teach myself Dreamweaver so that I
    can have a site. Maybe after Christmas . . . <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer
  created: '2003-12-09 00:43:01'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: Frank Jonen <BR> <BR>You are welcome. Good to hear from you. <BR> <BR>Jim
    Rimmer
  created: '2003-12-09 00:45:53'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Jim, too bad you do not ahve any samples, but I understand. Not enough hours
    in the day if you ask me. Too many things to learn ...etc. <BR> <BR>Well, if you
    ever have anything, let me know - i would enjoy seeing them.
  created: '2003-12-09 14:48:22'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: 'Mike <BR> <BR>I have lots of samples of my letterpress work. It&#39;s just
    that I don&#39;t have them on the web. <BR> <BR>If you will give me your mailing
    address, I will send you some things. <BR> <BR>My e mail is: <a href="mailto:rimmertype@shaw.ca">rimmertype@shaw.ca</a>
    <BR> <BR>Additionally, if you are searching for a small press and type, you should
    look up Don Black Linecasting on the internet. He is in the Toronto area. This
    man has a large warehouse of letterpress equipment. <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer'
  created: '2003-12-09 17:30:33'
date: '2003-12-08 15:49:36'
title: Letterpress Survey
...
