---
author:
  name: hello_caleb
  picture: 110315
body: <a href="http://www.helloproduct.com/fonts" target="_blank">www.helloproduct.com/fonts</a>
comments:
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'Hi Caleb, <BR> <BR>Nothing wrong with a crusty woodtype slab serif. The letterforms
    look fine.  <BR> <BR>The effort ahead of you is to take what you have and turn
    it into something unique. How do you make this font marketable. Well for one thing,
    you give it features you don&#39;t find in other fonts. Such as? Loads of ornaments,
    borders, and a large gammut of flourishes &#40;all crustified like your sample&#41;.
    Probably a whole extra font worth. You could also make an overlay font, that adds
    interior details. Oh yeah, a decent lower case would push this past a whole slew
    of similar fonts. Looks like a fun project! <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR>Randy <BR> <BR>One
    piece of advice: I&#39;ve found sharing at least a little info about your source
    material &#40;if any&#41; is a good thing. For example, one could wrongly assume
    that you printed out an existing font, autotraced it a little grungy, then called
    it yours, when in fact you dug up a sweet little gem at a garage sale and inked
    up some prints. Also, I&#39;m curious :-&#41;'
  created: '2003-12-16 20:54:08'
- author:
    name: hello_caleb
    picture: 110315
  body: thanks randy, <BR> <BR>they are sketched, then scanned. i used several very
    old woodcarving books from our libray at UNT as reference, combining different
    characteristics. these books were printed in the late 50&#39;s. does this bring
    up a copyright issue?
  created: '2003-12-17 06:12:53'
- author:
    name: hello_caleb
    picture: 110315
  body: what the hell?
  created: '2003-12-17 06:18:43'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Should be fine. &#40;But I will envoke the, I&#39;m not a lawyer clause&#41;.
    On the quadrupple post, it will work even though you may get an error, or it takes
    forever. I open up another window and continue browsing while I wait for the other
    one to crash and burn. <BR> <BR>Looking forward to seeing where you go with this.
    <BR> <BR>Randy
  created: '2003-12-17 12:31:32'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Bruhn&#39;s <a href="http://www.veer.com/results.asp?Image=FOT0000065"> Farao</a>
    can be a good reference for you...
  created: '2003-12-17 13:34:00'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Hi Caleb <BR>I have done lots of these kinds of fonts, and I will say this,
    to follow up on earlier comment - do all the characters, uc and lc, etc. I like
    the roughness of it, distinguishes it somewhat, but this is a good start, maybe
    expand on that idea.  <BR>Keep on keeping on <BR>Jordan
  created: '2004-03-07 00:56:36'
date: '2003-12-16 16:33:03'
title: Old Woodtype
...
