---
author:
  name: funcmedia
body: I didn&#39;t design this site but I&#39;m redesigning it. I&#39;ve voiced a
  few of my concerns with the current design that they are using, but they don
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: It takes forever to load, Its boring &#40;too boxey, break out of the boxes
    please&#41;and I hate having to wait for flash animations. The date is cut off
    on right hand side &#40;I&#39;m using Safari&#41; There should be a splash screen
    where you could bypass any animation. On the plus side the navigation is straight
    forward. I don&#39;t go to sites to entertain me if I want entertainment I will
    go to a movie. I want information, and ease of navigation, if its interesting
    to look at, good, but not at the cost of reading content. Just some thoughts
  created: '2003-12-17 22:19:22'
- author:
    name: lars
    picture: 110159
  body: 'ok, my few thoughts: <BR> <BR>the animations are to big, the menu/navigation
    shouldnt be centered, the colors dont &#34;match&#34;, the contrast between top
    and content is to &#34;hard&#34; &#40;black/white&#41;, the whole site is a bit
    to hectic &#40;because of &#34;all&#34; the animations&#41;, the date bug occurs
    in firebird/win, too, the shadowed boxes on the solution page are ugly, the different
    menu levels are confusing because the 2nd level menu is placed to deep and doesnt
    seem to have a relation to the top level menu, this top level flash animation
    doesnt make any sense it&#39;s just disturbing, the right hand menu on the 1st
    page is confusing to, too much text on the 1st page imho, ... hth: lars'
  created: '2003-12-18 12:28:10'
- author:
    name: fredde
  body: When redesigning stick the mainmenu and submenus together at all times. Keep
    it on the same place throughout the site. There are few things that are worser
    than having to look for the navigation. <BR>Try to find some grid so it all feels
    tight and fixed. right now everything seems to float around <BR>The current site
    doesn&#39;t have an eyecatcher of some sort, the top animation is to wide and
    cluttered. <BR>The type is way to booring. <BR> <BR>Be gentle and subtile with
    them. They have ordered and paid for the current site and it&#39;s like their
    baby. you dont tell other people that their kids are ugly right :-&#41;. What
    I&#39;m trying to say is that you dont want them to become defensive...it happens
    to me all the time though :-&#40; <BR> <BR>/fredde <BR>
  created: '2003-12-18 21:03:48'
date: '2003-12-17 17:50:27'
title: Website design / brand audit &#40;your feedback&#41;
...
