---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: So is there a way to decide the angle that software &#40;like Word or Explorer&#41;
  uses when slanting a font that doesn&#39;t have an italic? There seems to be a field
  for it in one of FontLab&#39;s &#34;Font Info&#34; panels, but it doesn&#39;t effect
  the results. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The FontInfo field to which you refer is probably the Slant Angle. This does
    something other than what you want: it is a way to mechanically oblique a Type
    1 on output, and was used a means to ship &#39;italic&#39; fonts for families
    that don&#39;t have true italics. The original Adobe/Linotype Helvetica italic
    PS fonts used this mechanism, for example. The italic fonts were obliqued in use,
    but if you opened them in FontLab you would find that the outlines were upright
    -- identical to the roman fonts in fact -- and the obliques you saw in apps were
    as a result of the Slant Angle setting. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not aware of any setting
    to do what you want, but have a look at the OS/2 table spec. That would be the
    obvious place for such a setting in TT and OT fonts.'
  created: '2003-12-17 21:57:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Thanks. <BR> <BR>&#62; the OS/2 table spec <BR> <BR>Is this something accessible
    from FontLab, or a hand-coding deal? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-12-17 22:04:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: John,  <BR> <BR>OpenType PS &#40;.otf&#41; fonts also use the Slant operator
    so &#34;dynamic&#34; slanting is possible. In fact, for oblique typefaces, there
    are advantages of using the Slant operator instead of manually slanting outlines.
    You can hint the upright font for PostScript once, and then let ATM interpret
    the hinting and do the slanting. Authinting of upright fonts usually works better
    than autohinting manually slanted fonts.  <BR> <BR>Hrant,  <BR> <BR>seems like
    neither the OpenType spec nor the FOND Mac resource allows to specify the angle
    of automatic slanting if the italic/oblique style is missing.  <BR> <BR>Adam <BR>
  created: '2003-12-18 00:00:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Thanks for the extra details, Adam. I&#39;m not surprised that support for
    the Slant operator has been carried over from Type 1 to CSS. I have to admit,
    that I&#39;ve just about given up on PS fonts: Ross has made some CFF OT fonts,
    but I&#39;ve done nothing but TrueType for the past couple of years. <BR> <BR>Hrant,
    most aspects of the OS/2 table can be input via FontLab, e.g. the TT/OT vertical
    metrics, codepage and Unicode range bits, etc., but most of these are not identified
    specifically as OS/2 table entries in the FontLab interface: you have to be familiar
    with the spec to know which FontLab fields correspond to which sfnt table entries.'
  created: '2003-12-18 01:48:41'
date: '2003-12-17 21:40:42'
title: Fake Italics angle
...
