---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: 'Hey Y&#39;all, <BR> <BR>I&#39;m looking for the name of the font and/or who
  sells the font that is used in the citibank ads. I found a sample of it here: <A
  HREF="http://www.citibank.com/us/cards/images/impact.gif" TARGET="_top">http://www.citibank.com/us/cards/images/impact.gif</A>
  <BR> <BR>Any help would be appreciated. <BR> <BR>Later, <BR>Bo'
comments:
- author:
    name: flingford
    picture: 110459
  body: ' I&#39;ve wondered the same thing. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m willing to bet it&#39;s
    a monospaced &#40;typewriter&#41; font. Hope that helps. <BR> <BR>//joe '
  created: '2001-06-25 06:21:07'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' I did a quick search and it&#39;s remarkably similar  <BR>to the OCR fonts
    &#40;OCR-A, B, F - search at  <BR>myfonts.com&#41;. So maybe those might do for
    you in  <BR>the meantime. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll keep on the lookout. '
  created: '2001-06-25 06:24:44'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Thanks Stephen. <BR> <BR>You&#39;re right about it being similar to the
    OCR fonts. I looked at them and others &#40;citizen, platelet, letter gothic,
    etc.&#41; prior to posting here but it&#39;s not any of them. I saw a font called
    OCR-J once but can&#39;t remember where or what it looked like. <BR> <BR>Bo '
  created: '2001-06-26 07:40:46'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' After 1 month of fasting and praying I&#39;ve found <BR>the source of the
    mystery OCR face. It&#39;s OCRK <BR>MediumSquare by Joe Kral of Test Pilot Collective.  <BR>TPC
    also sells &#40;or sold&#41; his OCRJ family - also <BR>available in 6 weights
    - but they seem to be in <BR>limbo since the fall of Makambo.com. <BR> <BR>Funny
    thing: I met Mr. Kral at TypeCon last week. <BR>I&#39;ll send him this thread
    and we&#39;ll see what&#39;s up. '
  created: '2001-07-22 18:05:59'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: hello typophiles, <BR> <BR>thanks stephen for the email. <BR> <BR>The Citibank
    font is a custom version of OCRK Bold Square. There&#39;s only a few changes from
    the regular font. We&#39;re working on getting a shopping cart system set up for
    TPC. I think we&#39;re also gonna put our fonts up on myfonts.com too. They should
    be up soon... <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.testpilotcollective.com" TARGET="_top">http://www.testpilotcollective.com</A>
    <BR> <BR>thanks, joe kral
  created: '2001-07-23 00:36:51'
- author:
    name: flingford
    picture: 110459
  body: 'Hah! So Stephen, you not only found the typeface in question but you&#39;ve
    reeled in the actual designer... Have you considered becoming a private investigator?
    <BR> <BR>Here&#39;s a possible Tpyophile tagline: &#34;The Typophile Identification
    Board. It&#39;s worth the wait!&#34; <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>//joe'
  created: '2001-07-23 05:09:14'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' That&#39;s a fine complement, Joe. Never thought I could be  <BR>a P.I.
    When I took those career direction tests in high  <BR>school the result was always
    &#34;clerk&#34;. I guess that&#39;s  <BR>most appropriate. <BR> <BR>&#34;Looking
    for that file, Mr. Carter? I&#39;ll find it  <BR>for you in a jiffy.&#34; '
  created: '2001-07-28 18:05:16'
date: '2001-06-22 23:23:32'
title: (x) Citibank print campaign - custom version of OCRK Bold Square {Stephen}
...
