---
author:
  name: unconed
body: 'Yet another &#39;my first face&#39; thread... I&#39;ve been reading about type
  design here for a while now and wanted to try making my own simple face. <BR> <BR>I
  started out with a doodle of the A and really liked that shape, so I started making
  other letters based on that. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve only got uppercase done right now,
  but I wanted to get some feedback before I spend more time on this. <BR> <BR>The
  result is pretty okay in my own humble opinion, but of course it&#39;s no quality
  face. I haven&#39;t done any kerning pairs so the spacing is a bit off, and it still
  suffers from the &#39;circles appear smaller than rectangles&#39; illusion. The
  letter I&#39;m the least happy with is the &#39;G&#39;, which is just a mirrored
  &#39;E&#39;: I haven&#39;t found a good substitute though. <BR> <BR>All comments
  welcome... <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.acko.net/dump/extralard.png" target="_blank">http://www.acko.net/dump/extralard.png</a>'
comments:
- author:
    name: designalchemy
  body: open up the counters a bit for legibility
  created: '2003-12-30 05:28:23'
- author:
    name: unconed
  body: 'It&#39;s been a while, but I&#39;ve worked on it some more &#40;stupid exams
    taking up all my time :P&#41;: <BR> <BR><a href="http://acko.net/dump/dacoden.png"
    target="_blank">http://acko.net/dump/dacoden.png</a> <BR> <BR>As suggested, I
    opened up the counters. The font is still quite fat, but now it&#39;s much more
    readable. <BR> <BR>I originally started out with simple geometric shapes and fixed
    proportions for the letter designs, but after putting it together I started changing
    the shapes here and there. I&#39;ve got a couple of nice lowercase letters sketched,
    but I don&#39;t think I could do a good full lowercase set to match this, so I&#39;m
    going to keep it uppercase only &#40;I set up proper multiple mappings so that
    you can type lowercase, even for accented letters&#41;. <BR> <BR>I added the thorn
    and eth and various simple symbols and replaced that crappy g by a better one.
    It doesn&#39;t fit the rest of the letters strictly, but I think it adds some
    flavor, like the lowercase &#39;g&#39; often does in Latin typefaces. <BR> <BR>I
    decided to include the thorny sort-of-serifs on more letters to make it more consistent
    at the top. I got rid of the lowercase-ish &#39;i&#39; because it looked really
    weird for accented i&#39;s. <BR> <BR>And finally, I came up with a proper name
    for this font: Dacoden. <BR> <BR>Again, any comments are much appreciated!'
  created: '2004-01-09 02:03:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Frankly, this isn&#39;t my cup of tea. But I&#39;m not here to gripe - I actually
    see promise in the fact that some glyph combinations are wonderful, the way they
    fit together. So I&#39;d propose that you take this up a notch and create an OpenType
    font where alternative glyph shapes are selected depending on what they&#39;re
    next to - to me that&#39;s the only way to make such a design worthwhile &#40;except
    as a learning exercise, perhaps&#41;. BTW, with the new FontLab adding OT wizardry
    isn&#39;t nearly as daunting as it sounds. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-01-09 02:12:57'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: The way the glyphs fit together reminds me a bit of Wes Wilson&#39;s groovy
    <a href="http://www.veer.com/results.asp?Image=FBT0300041">Peace</a> family from
    Font Bureau. Although your characters are much less uniform in shape. And I agree
    with Hrant&#39;s suggestion regarding harnessing the power of OpenType&#39;s contextual
    glyph substitution to make the face intelligently flexible. This type of face
    could really take advantage of that technology.
  created: '2004-01-09 02:36:23'
- author:
    name: unconed
  body: 'This was indeed mostly intended as an exercise: the only way to learn is
    to start doing. In fact I still have no idea if type design is my cup of tea,
    but so far I&#39;ve had lots of fun working on Dacoden. Type is strangely addictive
    ;&#41;. <BR> <BR>Anyway, to make the glyphs fit together, I don&#39;t think in
    fact that many alternates would be required. I don&#39;t have any idea how to
    do OpenType glyph substitution yet though, but it would be interesting if I could
    make it all work without looking awkward. <BR> <BR>The Peace font is indeed very
    nice. However unlike in Peace, I wanted to stick to simple glyphs, so fitting
    every letter in the same enclosure like Wes Wilson has managed would be difficult
    &#40;and I don&#39;t think I&#39;m up to that sort of challenging design yet anyway&#41;.'
  created: '2004-01-09 03:08:36'
date: '2003-12-29 14:21:27'
title: ExtraLard &#40;my first face, work-in-progress&#41;
...
