---
author:
  name: Miguel Hernandez
  picture: 110435
body: Hola Amigos, <BR> <BR>Any testimonial about success using python in FL? <BR>Please
  share info, links, experience, etc. <BR> <BR>mh
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I can&#39;t write Python scripts myself yet, although I can effectively edit
    existing ones, but I have paid Adam Twardoch to write a number of scripts over
    the past few years and these scripts have saved me many hours of work. <BR> <BR>Which
    reminds me ... Adam, I&#39;m still waiting for my composite management script.
  created: '2004-01-02 04:21:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I&#39;ve been doing one major project in Python/FL, so I&#39;m not as good
    as Adam. <BR>But eventually I see myself doing a lot of stuff for a lot of people
    with it. <BR> <BR>And I love the power, but: <BR>1&#41; I don&#39;t like the syntax/structure,
    at least in terms of FL. <BR>2&#41; It seems unruly. Not really buggy, but unruly,
    like Director Lingo &#40;although not as complex&#41;. You have to get to know
    it over time. <BR> <BR>Miguel, if you&#39;re considering taking the plunge, there&#39;s
    really one big question: your level of previous programming experience. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2004-01-02 05:50:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: If you are a complete beginner at programming, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0201709384/qid=1073023922//ref=sr_8_xs_ap_i0_xgl14/103-7338635-6651039?v=glance&amp;s=books&amp;n=507846">this
    book</a> is quite a good textbook. It teaches basic concepts of programming and
    introduces you to Python at the same time.
  created: '2004-01-02 06:14:15'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: I&#39;ve started using scripting extensively in FL. It&#39;s great. I use
    it for metrics adjustments, adding anchors, auto-generating multiple fonts from
    a MM FL doc, and countless other tasks &#40;Ever needed to rename a bunch of glyphs?
    Try python&#39;s regular expression module.&#41; <BR> <BR>Here is a <a href="http://www.ibiblio.org/obp/thinkCSpy/">free
    online book</a>, also for beginning programmers, that uses python. It&#39;s good,
    even if you&#39;ve had some experience. Another great resource is the Python web
    site. They have some pretty simple <a href="http://python.org/doc/2.2.3/">tutorials</a>
    that should get you started in python. For the FontLab interface, the <a href="http://dev.fontlab.net/flpydoc/navi/main.html%20">Unofficial
    FontLab/Python API Reference</a> is invaluable. Of course, read the archive of
    the <a href="http://mail.letterror.com/mailman/listinfo/fontlab-scripting">FL
    scripting list</a>. <BR> <BR>At any rate, if you spend any time at all in FontLab,
    it is definitely worth your while to learn Python scripting. You will be amazed
    at how often you write two or three lines of code in the edit macro panel. Your
    own scripts are much more valuable than anything you might find online, as they
    will fit perfectly into your workflow. You can save hours this way. &#40;You can
    also waste countless hours trying to figure things out, when it would have been
    faster to do it manually, but it&#39;s always funner to learn. That&#39;s the
    computer programmers motto, &#39;power through lazyness&#39;. They&#39;ll work
    all day to avoid 10 minutes of tedious work.&#41;
  created: '2004-01-10 18:57:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Dude, it&#39;s not laziness, it&#39;s the principle of it.  ;-&#41; <BR>But
    knowing when to do things by hand instead is an art itself. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-01-10 21:51:24'
date: '2004-01-02 01:20:17'
title: Can you program in python...?
...
