---
author:
  name: Chris Rugen
  picture: 110153
body: According to <a href="http://boingboing.net/2004_01_01_archive.html#107357638950469017">BoingBoing.net</a>,
  &#34;Photoshop CS automatically detects images of US currency and prevents the manipulation,
  copying and pasting of same.&#34; <BR> <BR>The article is linked from a <a href="http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=04/01/08/0111228&amp;mode=thread&amp;tid=152&amp;tid=185">Slashdot
  article</a>, which links to the Adobe <a href="http://www.adobeforums.com/cgi-bin/webx?128@251.aTiabueoSP3.265295@.2ccf3d27">forum</a>
  on the subject. <BR> <BR>Interestingly, it prevents users from engaging in what
  the US government defines as legal usage of currency images. This is both depressing
  and scary. Apparently, it&#39;s restricted to only certain denominations, but isn&#39;t
  restricted to just US currency. Also, there are many caveats to what exactly will
  and will not open. Does anyone else know anything about this?
comments:
- body: Give me photshop cs, and give me some money, and I&#39;ll test it all out
    for you.
  created: '2004-01-10 03:08:36'
- author:
    name: emp
    picture: 110103
  body: It&#39;s been tested, on TechTV as a matter o fact. It doesn&#39;t allow it.
  created: '2004-01-10 04:20:50'
- author:
    name: down
  body: What does the program look for to detect that the picture is actually money?
    How far does this detection go, and can it interfere with people who design things
    that resemble these markers?
  created: '2004-01-10 05:13:04'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Also, what about working with stock photography which includes <a href="http://search.veer.com/results.aspx?txtkeys1=&amp;txtKeyInclude=currency%20bill&amp;ProductType=1txtPixPerPage=72">images
    of currency</a>?
  created: '2004-01-10 07:30:15'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Here&#39;s a news item from Friday. Adobe officially admits that they added
    &#39;secretive&#39; technology to Photoshop at the request of government regulators
    and international bankers. <BR> <BR><a href="http://biz.yahoo.com/ap/040109/copying_dollars_3.html"
    target="_blank">http://biz.yahoo.com/ap/040109/copying_dollars_3.html</a>
  created: '2004-01-10 08:40:33'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: This is hardcore. With the current massive Orwellization of the United States,
    it&#39;s very very eerie to have one of the major software companies pulling such
    a stunt. This does not bode well for the future...
  created: '2004-01-10 08:52:20'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: It doesn&#39;t work with Euro bills either, I&#39;ve read.
  created: '2004-01-10 13:39:09'
- author:
    name: gln
    picture: 110168
  body: It would seem that the government is trying to close the barn door after the
    horse has bolted. <BR> <BR>If any one was serious about copying they would just
    obtain a pre Photoshop CS version. <BR> <BR>I wonder if  my pre Photoshop CS versions
    will appreciate in value. <BR> <BR>gln
  created: '2004-01-10 19:07:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: 'Actually you can open a scan of currency, in PS CS as long as the dimensions
    conform to: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.treas.gov/usss/money_illustrations.shtml"
    target="_blank">http://www.treas.gov/usss/money_illustrations.shtml</a> <BR> <BR>I
    scanned a US 20 at 400 percent and it opened in CS no problem'
  created: '2004-01-11 03:20:48'
- author:
    name: vanisaac
  body: How does it handle currency at size with the word &#34;sample&#34; printed
    across it?
  created: '2004-01-11 03:58:15'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: I posted this on another forum and my god...they&#39;re all calling me paranoid
    for being pissed off at this restriction and everything. <BR> <BR>I mean, today
    it&#39;s images of money, tomorrow it&#39;s images of weapons, or nude pictures,
    or anything with any type of copyright in it... <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t help it if
    I value my rights as a consumer and citizen of the formerly free USA.
  created: '2004-01-11 04:31:59'
- author:
    name: rolf_309
  body: Hahaha, as they can stop me making fake money.
  created: '2004-01-11 13:23:26'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: This is actually not so exotic if you think about it. Every image has a histogram.
    I suspect they feed in a set of functions that approximate various currency histograms
    &#40;and you can do these in RGB, LAB, CMYK or who knows how many models&#41;
    and if the approximations fit closely enough, Photoshop won&#39;t let you do it.
    <BR> <BR>There would have to be other factors as well to keep someone from putting
    a big lump of color next to the bill to throw off its historgram. Fascinating
    stuff! <BR> <BR>The easy way around this is open source software like the GIMP.
    The scary thing is requiring these tests to be done at the hardware level. I&#39;d
    be surprised if the latest scanners from the leading brands didn&#39;t all have
    similar routines in their hardware. Once that happens, your problem is getting
    the image into the program. <BR> <BR>Then there are the printers. I&#39;d bet
    they&#39;re targeting those as well. Especially the cheap disposable CrapJet printers
    where all the RIPping is done in the OS printer driver. <BR> <BR>Perhaps a clever
    dumpster diver could salvage one of the unprotected models before they all go
    Big Brother. <BR> <BR>It would also have been interesting if Adobe had only protected
    US currency and not the Euro. That way they could &#40;literally!&#41; manipulate
    the world currency market. Counterfeit Euros would be very healthy for the US
    economy right now. :-/
  created: '2004-01-12 20:18:02'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: It&#39;s not really the fact that Photoshop won&#39;t let you open pictures
    of banknotes that gets to me, it&#39;s the fact that Adobe never mentioned this
    &#40;and from what I know, they still haven&#39;t&#41;. <BR> <BR>Even so, if I
    recall correctly, the US laws say you can use images of banknotes provided they
    are either 50% or 150% the actual size... so what if I need to open a picture
    of a $100 bill to shrink it down to the desired &#40;and legal&#41; size? <BR>It
    won&#39;t stop counterfeiters either, as they will simply go back to Photoshop
    7 or some other image manipulation program.
  created: '2004-01-12 20:32:14'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Adriano, Adobe fessed up about it after someone found out about the limitation.
    <BR> <BR>It was put there at the request &#40;ie, force&#41; of the Government.
    <BR> <BR><a href="http://apnews.excite.com/article/20040110/D8006CL00.html" target="_blank">http://apnews.excite.com/article/20040110/D8006CL00.html</a>
  created: '2004-01-12 23:10:39'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: Still, why isn&#39;t there a note in the user manual or help file, saying
    that currency can only be scanned at such and such settings...
  created: '2004-01-12 23:24:51'
- author:
    name: calam
  body: If you&#39;re wondering how this works, Photoshop CS looks for the <a href="http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/eurion.pdf">&#34;EURion
    Constellation&#34;</a> hidden in modern currency from Canada, Europe, Britain,
    Germany, the US and elsewhere. No fancy histogram checks, no image content recognition.
    Just a simple pattern detection algorithm. <BR> <BR>New versions of JASC Paint
    Shop Pro and Ulead PhotoImpact also contain this currency detection algorithm.
    A current proposal will require this of all image editing software. <BR> <BR>There
    are ways around the system. Opening it in Photoshop 7, hiding the layer and then
    re-opening it in Photoshop CS works. Or you can scale the image larger than 150%
    or smaller than 75%. The Treasury Board also said they will give out electronic
    versions which do not contain the protective pattern if you ask nicely. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    curious to see the result of adding this pattern to an original artwork. Will
    it still open in Photoshop CS? Does Photoshop look for more than just the EURion
    Constellation when determining what is a bank note?
  created: '2004-01-12 23:35:11'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: This comes as no surprise. <BR> <BR>kris
  created: '2004-01-13 04:15:28'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Where is this thing in the new US 20 dollar bill?  I&#39;ve never noticed
    a pattern of circles on it before.
  created: '2004-01-13 04:36:19'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: The really scary thing about this is that there are people living off tax-payers
    money who can&#39;t find something less moronic to do with themselves, or something
    less pointless to do with their budgets. <BR>
  created: '2004-01-13 12:47:43'
date: '2004-01-09 14:45:40'
title: Photoshop CS prevents currency scanning
...
