---
author:
  name: emp
  picture: 110103
body: Know of any?
comments:
- author:
    name: adriano
    picture: 110264
  body: The font that I usually use at 5pt is FF DIN Regular. It&#39;s ultra legible
    for that size.
  created: '2004-01-12 16:19:55'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: You could try Signa, considering it has a huge x-height...
  created: '2004-01-12 16:34:49'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Gotham is remarkably clear at 5 pt. <BR>Interstate should be too.
  created: '2004-01-12 17:19:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Bell Centennial, etc. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-01-12 17:21:24'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: 'Din, Meta, FFOcr &#40;esp as caps, Section, Info, some of the Bell Fonts
    were designed especially with bleed agates for phonebooks and can be printed very
    small. On that note, maybe Fontbureaus Amplitude works as well, I sadly can&#39;t
    test it though, as I don&#39;t owe that font. '
  created: '2004-01-12 17:27:34'
- author:
    name: emp
    picture: 110103
  body: 'Thanks, fans. After putting a few that I own to the test, I realized that
    I also need italics and at least one heavier weight. DIN condensed doesn&#39;t
    have italic versions and neither does Bell Centennial. Sorry I didn&#39;t mention
    this earlier. <BR> <BR>EDIT &#40;one more time&#41;: I should have mentioned that
    this font will be used for legal copy. So I want a condensed type that I can cram
    as much copy into the space as possible.'
  created: '2004-01-12 17:32:13'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: Eric, you might look at non-condensed types. When you are dancing on the edge
    of readability, non-condensed type actually saves space over condensed type. &#40;Among
    other things,&#41; condensing a type emphasizes the vertical strokes and de-emphasizes
    the horizontals. This makes the face more difficult to read, so you have to increase
    the type size. All other things equal, I can usually save 5-10% by switching to
    a non-condensed version. <BR> <BR>Of course,  the whole point of legal &#34;fine
    print&#34; is to make it difficult to read, so that might not be an issue. Extra
    points if you screen it back 50%.
  created: '2004-01-12 18:05:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I don&#39;t know how well it works, but <a href="http://www.itcfonts.com/fonts/detail.asp?nCo=AFMT&amp;PID=ITC9188"
    target="_blank">Biblion</a> was designed to print at very small sizes, has an
    italic, and won an award. You might have a look at it. There is a PDF at Stormtype.com,
    but I couldn&#39;t get it to download.  '
  created: '2004-01-12 20:22:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Legal copy, eh? Well, legibility probably the real concern then, right? It
    doesn&#39;t have to be <i>easy</i> to read, merely capable of being read. Helvetica
    Condensed is used on all of the Terms and Conditions of legal/ contractual documents
    I handle where I work. I don&#39;t believe that they are 4 or 5 pt, but more like
    6-8, and it works. Give it a try. It&#39;s not a type-saavy choice, but it&#39;s
    got what you need, and doesn&#39;t have much character to get in the way of legibility.
    However, glancing at the last few posts, I&#39;m inclined to agree with Jay about
    dancing on the line when you get as small as you say you will. <BR> <BR>Also,
    if you&#39;re working on a legal document, check how the type reproduces after
    faxing, which may eliminate some contenders for you. Helvetica Condensed survives
    enough for purposes of the company I work for.
  created: '2004-01-12 21:40:12'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: 'What about this: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.letterror.com/foundry/goodies/index.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.letterror.com/foundry/goodies/index.html</a> <BR> <BR>It
    is made especially for contracts/legal copy, and it is absolutely free!  <BR>
    <BR>&#40;tongue firmly in cheek!&#41; <BR> <BR>kris <BR>'
  created: '2004-01-13 04:04:28'
date: '2004-01-12 16:17:04'
title: Sans font&#40;s&#41; that work best at 4 or 5 pt
...
