---
author:
  name: markatos
  picture: 110243
body: What the hell is up with that gray rectangle that appears when you select an
  object? <BR> <BR>And I am not talking about the boudning box.  This is someting
  that just appears around your entire selection.   <BR> <BR>anyone know how to turn
  it off? <BR> <BR>thanks
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Did this just appear recently, or is it something that you&#39;ve experienced
    in AI 10 from the start? I don&#39;t remember ever having this happen to me. <BR>
    <BR>I use AI 10 in OS X 10.2 at work.
  created: '2004-01-16 21:46:45'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: It&#39;s happened since i got it.  Also happens on my friends version as well.
    <BR> <BR>Both of us are on Macs.  And OSX. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not that big of a
    deal, but it&#39;s pretty damn annoying.   <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-01-16 21:52:22'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: 'I would love to find a solution to this as well. Very annoying. And why does
    my tool palette disappear randomly when launching the application? Yeesh. <BR>
    <BR>If you&#39;ve never seen this occur, here are some screen dumps illustrating
    the difference between a bounding box selection and the '
  created: '2004-01-16 22:07:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Ooohh, I see. Yes, that happens to me too. <BR> <BR>I had visions of large
    fields of grey when I read your description. I have no idea what it is or how
    to turn it off. I must&#39;ve just gotten used to it and forgotten about it.
  created: '2004-01-16 22:16:06'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: I have went through every preference in Illustrator.  I am wondering if this
    is some strange OSX thing. <BR> <BR>Cept, I don&#39;t see it in other programs.  I
    have deciphered why it is there &#40;I think&#41;.  When you shift-click and move
    an object it shows the boundries you can move before the object snaps onto the
    next coordinate.  But, I don&#39;t need to know that. <BR> <BR>Grr.  Where&#39;s
    that Adobe guy?
  created: '2004-01-16 22:17:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I never noticed it. And now I guess with CS I never will. &#62;&#62; Does
    it have anything to do with the tool used to select?
  created: '2004-01-16 22:30:43'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: Tiffany, how is CS btw?  Was curious about it, don&#39;t know anyone personally
    that is using it just yet. <BR> <BR>&#40;and it doesn&#39;t have anything to do
    with the tool&#41;
  created: '2004-01-16 22:33:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Illustrator CS is much improved. They new type engine &#40;or whatever that
    is called&#41; is sooooo much faster. It makes me smile more with every use. The
    opentype panel is cool too. The 3D stuff &#40;although I&#39;ve only tinkered&#41;
    is nice. I keep the links palette and the navigation palette closed and that seems
    to help speed it up. Although, it is still much faster than AI10. I&#39;m a speed
    freak, so I would always be happier with faster software.  <BR> <BR>[Sidenote:
    I still find InDesign CS &#40;compared to InDesign 2&#41; very slow. In my mind
    it seems it should be able to be as fast as quark. Why isn&#39;t it? Maybe a new
    thread topic.]'
  created: '2004-01-16 23:06:28'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;In my mind it seems it should be able to be as fast as quark. Why
    isn&#39;t it? <BR> <BR>This isn&#39;t really my field, so I could be talking nonsense,
    but the thing that springs to mind is that you are probably doing much more with
    InD, than you did with Quark - even if you don&#39;t realise it. <BR>For example,
    if your Quark experience is pre-version 6, then you were working without multiple
    undo. Think of all the available options that make you want to use InD, rather
    than Quark. Now, even if you&#39;re not using them, you might be, so InD has to
    check to see if you are, and it has to leave the door open in case you want to
    in the future, and then it has to leave a route back to anywhere in your session,
    incase you want to undo your way all the way back to lunchtime. <BR>This is why
    we all have to keep buying new hardware - because the software does so many new
    things &#40;which we all take for granted after about 15 seconds&#41;. <BR>'
  created: '2004-01-18 14:49:42'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Myself, I have found InD CS slightly faster than 2.0, although it is still
    slower than QuarkXPress. OTOH, QXP 6 is considerably slower than previous versions
    of QXP.... <BR> <BR>Steve&#39;s right that many of the standard features of InDesign
    will slow it down. For example: <BR>- hi-res graphics previews <BR>- paragraph
    composer <BR>- unlimited undo <BR> <BR>If performance is an issue, one can adjust
    some of these &#40;and other options&#41; to improve performance, at a cost of
    features. I believe there is a standard tech note on improving InD performance
    on the Adobe Web site. <BR> <BR>&#40;BTW, no clue on the grey box in Illustrator.
    Sorry.&#41; <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-01-18 17:44:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; This is why we all have to keep buying new hardware - because the software
    does so many new things <BR> <BR>Naaah. I think the real reason is that inefficient
    code is good for this perception-driven economy &#40;as long as all the big players
    are about equally inefficient&#41;. Fontographer 3.1 does most of what 4 does,
    and it&#39;s magnitudes leaner and faster - I used to run it in 512 RAM with one
    floppy drive... under Mac emulation! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-01-19 03:08:47'
date: '2004-01-16 21:30:02'
title: Illustrator 10
...
