---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: I&#39;m using Illustrator and InDesign which both express word and letter spacing
  in percents and I&#39;d very much like to know how much &#39;em&#39; is their percentage
  value. Or, in other words - 120% of WHAT?
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: As far as I know, 120% of what the type designer wanted.  :-&#40; <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-06-03 15:57:18'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: 'There was a similar question on Adobe&#39;s Typography forum a little while
    ago. The standard response was that a space is usually between .21 and .28 of
    an em. Thomas Phinney checked 21 common faces, &amp; came up w/ these results:
    <BR> <BR>Minion Pro: .227  <BR>Kepler Std: .207  <BR>Poynter: .264  <BR>Gentium:
    .220  <BR>Adobe Caslon Pro: .254  <BR>Adobe Garamond Pro: .250  <BR>Palatino:
    .250  <BR>Aldus: .250  <BR>Bell MT: .250  <BR>Bembo: .278  <BR>Centaur: .245  <BR>New
    Baskerville: .260  <BR>Perpetua: .225  <BR>Sabon: .278  <BR>Stempel Garamond:
    .250  <BR>Times Roman: .250  <BR>Berkeley Oldstyle Book: .259  <BR>Galliard: .280  <BR>ITC
    Garamond: .321  <BR>Joanna: .260  <BR>Plantin: .278  <BR> <BR>IOW, if you set
    your spacing to 100% in Galliard, each space will be .28 of an em. If you set
    it to 120%, it will be .32 ... er, .33 ... aw, hell, I can&#39;t believe I can&#39;t
    do this one in my head. &#40;opens calculator&#41; <BR> <BR>.336 of an em <BR>
    <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-03 17:14:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The width of a word space varies from typeface to typeface, and even within
    a family it is likely that, for example, the roman word space will be wider than
    the italic word space. The appropriate space between words needs to be related
    to the space between and within letters, so the default spacing is defined by
    the type designer, who hopefully knows what he is doing. <BR> <BR>Maxim Zhukov
    reports that, during the darkest days of Soviet typography, the national typesetting
    and printing union regulations specified that every word space should be <i>one
    en space</i>, regardless of the design of the typeface. I have a Russian-English
    dictionary that was typeset this way: hideous.'
  created: '2003-06-03 17:15:07'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: '&#62;regulations specified that every word space should be one en space <BR>
    <BR>Oh, my. We are talking about one seriously bored bureaucrat. '
  created: '2003-06-03 17:21:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '<i>&#62;so the default spacing is defined by the type designer, who hopefully
    knows what he is doing. </i> <BR> <BR>Theoretically this is true, and probably
    so for most recent designs. But, for example, I doubt that Griffo -- or Morison
    -- would have specified .278 em for Bembo&#39;s word space. In metal days, the
    word space was the determination of the typographer &#40;by which I mean, of course,
    the typesetter, or possibly the designer specifying the setting -- not the typeface
    designer, as the term is sometimes misused to mean these days&#41;. <BR> <BR>I
    have found that older fonts tend to have some rather arbitrary word spaces --
    like a lot of those 278s.  <BR> <BR>If you don&#39;t want to rely on trial and
    error, you can determine the word space value for yourself. If you have the AFM
    file for any given font, you can look up the word space by opening the file in
    a text editor and looking for the specs for character 32. Look for a line something
    like this <BR> <BR><b>C 32 ; WX 250 ; N space ; B 0 0 0 0 ;</b> <BR> <BR>The WX
    figure indicates the width in em units. In the typical Postscript Type 1 font,
    the em square is 1000, so the number given is in effect the percentage of the
    em: 250 = 0.25 em. <BR> <BR>From there you can calculate your percentages based
    on the space value you desire. <BR> <BR>-- K.'
  created: '2003-06-03 20:55:38'
date: '2003-06-03 15:20:45'
title: Word spacing - percentage instead of &#39;em&#39; and &#39;en&#39;
...
