---
author:
  name: pfeilgm
body: "I&#39;ve started development on an alternative keyboard mapping at <a href=\"http://technomadic.org/greg/Projects/keyboard/\"
  target=\"_blank\">http://technomadic.org/greg/Projects/keyboard/</a>. It started
  as a simple thing so that I could have a layout that I felt made sense. It&#39;s
  since grown into much more in my mind. The possibility of a single keyboard mapping
  useful throughout North America and Europe, and especially so to typographers and
  mathematicians. And also consistent across different computer systems such as Windows,
  Linux, Solaris, and OS\_X. <BR> <BR>The OS\_X version is the most advanced so far
  &#40;because the data format is very powerful&#41; and there is no Windows version
  yet &#40;because I don&#39;t know how to make the DLL&#41;. The xmodmap files &#40;for
  various Unix platforms&#41; fall in the middle ground. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve set up
  a mailing list to discuss and further develop the keymappings. I would appreciate
  it if anyone interested would take a few minutes to take a look and make any suggestions.
  <BR> <BR>Thank you."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'An optimal keyboard depends heavily on the ergonomics of typing <i>frequently-occuring
    sequences of letters</i>. Since this varies greatly by language, your -admittedly
    valiant and interesting- effort will be: <BR>1&#41; Certainly computationally
    heavy. <BR>2&#41; Probably too much of a compromise for most any individual language.
    <BR> <BR>On the other hand, it could be useful as a means to the methodical -if
    ponderous- access of any letter in any [Latinate] language - somewhat similar
    to how the IPA phonetic alphabet works great for academic work, but can&#39;t
    be used at all well for actual reading. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-04 06:45:16'
- author:
    name: pfeilgm
  body: "Hrant, you&#39;re correct that my grandiose keyboard panacea is a bit far-fetched.
    I\_think I just ran a little far trying to get people excited. I do see some real
    potential in it, though. <BR> <BR>1&#41; A standard extension to the qwerty layout.
    A cross-platform layout that anyone using qwerty can expect to have access to.
    And with a more logical layout than the ones provided with Apple&#39;s US\_and
    US\_Extended mappings &#40;a good OS\_X mapping was my initial impetus&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>2&#41;A standard set of characters for all Latinate keyboards. Even if the
    locations of the characters aren&#39;t the same, we could still probably come
    up with a common set of characters that are important to have access to &#40;There
    are currently ~950 characters available with my mapping - more than would be necessary
    to standardize, I think&#41; <BR> <BR>3&#41; And again, specifically something
    useful to typographers &#40;the idea was spawned by the layout in Bringhurst&#39;s
    Elements&#41; <BR> <BR>I guess we don&#39;t necessarily need a European unification.
    And, I would hasten to add that the characters are far from ponderous to access.
    I&#39;ve made an effort to &#40;at the very least&#41; improve on Apple&#39;s
    provided qwerty mappings. Common characters like quotation marks, guillemets,
    accents and additional letters have been carefully placed as logically as possible.
    Unfortunately, the images on the site don&#39;t make it as clear as possible,
    but the original image &#40;a single keyboard with 4 characters displayed on each
    key&#41; was fairly difficult to maintain. I&#39;ll restore that when the mapping
    reaches a less volatile state. <BR> <BR>But, thank you Hrant, for reining me in.
    I let myself get a little too caught up in the excitement of finally having this
    in a usable state."
  created: '2003-06-04 16:08:17'
- author:
    name: selfbuildtype
    picture: 110493
  body: Just a thought, but i wonder if anybody has considered manfacturing keyboards
    specifically for typesetters &#40;with additional keys for all those altshift
    chars&#41;? Apple are starting to manfacture keyboards specifically for photoshop
    and final cut pro.
  created: '2003-06-06 19:08:11'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: Craig said... <BR><i>keyboards specifically for typesetters &#40;with additional  <BR>keys
    for all those altshift chars&#41;</i> <BR> <BR>can you imagine the size of a keyboard
    that made place  <BR>for proper quotes, ligatures, en and em dashes,  <BR>trademark
    and registration symbols, etc! it&#39;d be a grand  <BR>piece of material, but
    I know I&#39;d make room on my desk!
  created: '2003-06-06 20:52:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: That&#39;s a great idea. I used to operate a Compugraphic Editwriter sometimes
    and they had special keys for everything instead of using menus. This is sort
    of an old idea, but it worked very well. &#40;You did have to enter special codes
    for special characters, however.&#41; The reason they were able to do it was because
    the machine was designed to do only one thing, wheras modern personal computers
    are general purpose machines. But, with USB, you could easily swap keyboards tailored
    to specific tasks, as easily as you can run different applications for specific
    tasks.
  created: '2003-06-06 20:58:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: When he was head of the type group at MS, Robert Norton designed a typesetter&#39;s
    keyboard and even had a prototype built. I saw it a few years ago when I was in
    Redmond. It is huge and not only has keys for all sorts of extended punctuation
    but also a large number of accented characters and, my favourite, a key for turning
    on/off smallcaps. As far as I know, software was never made for it.
  created: '2003-06-06 22:01:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Greg,  <BR>You can use the free <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/globaldev/tools/msklc.mspx"
    target="_blank">Microsoft Keyboard Layout Creator</a> tool to create custom keyboard
    layouts for Windows 2000/XP. '
  created: '2003-06-23 20:04:18'
date: '2003-06-04 06:31:25'
title: Alternate keyboard mapping
...
