---
author:
  name: garet
body: I am  typesetting new material for a book originally published in the 1960s
  and I have to match the font. So far, the closest match I have found is ITC Garamond
  Book . It has a similar weight on the page to the original.  <BR> <BR>But ITC Garamond
  Book doesn&#39;t have old-style figures and I  need them! Does anyone have a suggestion?  <BR>
  <BR>thanks, garet
comments:
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: Whithout seeing samples of the type you are trying to match this would be
    a hard question to answer. The tempting answer is to suggest one of the several
    Garamonds that have either an expert set or SC/OSF font included in the family.
    Adobe&#39;s Garamond No. 3 is a rather close approximation in terms of letterforms
    in the Roman and Italic, although the x-height is not the same. You might at least
    use the figures from that font with the letters from ITC Garamond. That would
    have less of an impact on appearance unless your book was largely numerals.
  created: '2004-01-28 19:38:45'
- author:
    name: garet
  body: Thanks for such a rapid response, Mike. Stupid me forgot to mention that I
    did try Garamond 3 SC and OSF but they are too thin in comparison to the Garamond
    Book. I&#39;m afraid I can&#39;t upload a sample of the font right now b/c the
    book went back to the client along with my unsatisfactory sample setting. If I
    can get the book back, I will post a scan. <BR> <BR>thanks again, garet
  created: '2004-01-28 20:22:03'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: Garet,  <BR> <BR>That is the reason I suggested just using the numerals from
    the other font. Keep all your text in ITC Garamond Book, but use the numerals
    from one of the other fonts that has OSF. Adobe Garamond has a semibold weight
    for the Expert set with OSF which might work.
  created: '2004-01-28 21:05:34'
date: '2004-01-28 19:11:37'
title: ITC Garamond Book and old-style figures
...
