---
author:
  name: nicolaj
body: A frind of mine is going to Tokyo on a inspiration trip. Does anyone have any
  good tips on fancy restaurants, shops, museums, artgalleries, underground fasion
  hidden holes, etc. <BR> <BR>Anything would be of interest
comments:
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: I have a &#34;good tip&#34;. <BR> <BR>Make sure he or she brings &#34;very
    dignified business cards&#34;. They will get the finest green tea in a powder
    form. And  better service. <BR> <BR>Business cards will do the trick. Let me say
    that again. Very classy, dignified cards will do the trick. Going &#34;Mod&#34;
    might not be helpful. <BR> <BR>Make sure they don&#39;t offer to take friends
    out for a fancy meal. It could easily cost $800. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-01-28 20:13:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'My brother was there in December and two things stood out for him: the capsule
    hotel he stayed for one night; some famous fish market which you have to get there
    before 5am to see anything. <BR> <BR>And yes, the business card aspect is funny:
    tell your friend to make sure to spend a few seconds perusing any business card
    he might get handed, held firmly in both hands. This is not a joke. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2004-01-28 20:59:43'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: 'Show this to your friend: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.ph-heidelberg.de/wp/krug/"
    target="_blank">http://www.ph-heidelberg.de/wp/krug/</a> <BR> <BR>Most of what
    you need to know about Japanese etiquette.'
  created: '2004-01-28 23:34:43'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Chris, <BR> <BR>That is funny if was.  <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-01-29 10:57:21'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Chris, <BR> <BR>That is funny it was. <BR> <BR>It cracks me up, I could die
    laughing. But . . . <BR>I&#39;ll get back to you. I am falling of my chair.
  created: '2004-01-29 11:01:25'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: That is funny if it was. But it is not. Take it as just good advice. Sake
    and woman, big trouble. Unless you like children. <BR> <BR>Now I have hiccups.
  created: '2004-01-29 11:06:37'
date: '2004-01-28 20:02:51'
title: Tokyo
...
