---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' Trying to ID the house fonts for the current design of US Esquire, as well
  as the Main Sans Serif of US GQ under Woodward. Sorry I dont have any scans. Im
  aware that both these are probably custom drawn, If anyone has any information on
  their origins, It would be most appreciated. <BR> <BR>Best, <BR>Jeremy. '
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: I haven&#39;t seen a copy of Esquire recently, but last I knew they were using
    Jonathan Hoefler&#39;s Mercury for their serif text face and some heads. For sans,
    I think they&#39;ve been using a fair bit of Frutiger&#39;s <A HREF="http://www.myfonts.com/FontFamily4514.html"
    TARGET="_blank"> Vectora</A>.  <BR> <BR>Neither have I seen GQ recently, so I
    may be mistaken, but I believe that they&#39;ve been using a version of HTF&#39;s
    <A HREF="http://www.typography.com/catalog/gotham/index.html" TARGET="_blank">
    Gotham</A> for their main sans. <BR> <BR>Someone who has the magazines at hand
    &#40;or Jonathan&#41; can confirm. <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2002-09-02 14:11:10'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: ' Yes, that&#39;s them. Esquire uses my &#34;Mercury Display&#34; typeface,
    as well as Tobias Frere-Jones&#39; slab serif, formerly known as &#34;Strada&#34;
    &#40;Albert Pinggera just released a design by the same name, so we&#39;re looking
    for a replacement.&#41; <BR> <BR>The GQ face is indeed Gotham, also by Tobias.
    You can follow the link above. <BR> <BR> <BR>Regards,  Jonathan '
  created: '2002-09-05 23:59:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#34;LaStrada&#34;? <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-06 00:08:44'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: ' Erik Estrada, maybe. '
  created: '2002-09-07 16:43:56'
date: '2002-09-02 12:01:43'
title: '&#40;x&#41; Esquire Magazine - Gotham, Vectora, Mercury Display et al {Kent,
  Jonathan}'
...
