---
author:
  name: twitch
body: I don&#39;t get how to get kerning done in Fontographer to stick, well when
  I made a postscript &#43; bitmap it worked fine in OS9 with ATM, but now the Kerning
  doesn&#39;t hold in OSX, the letter are stuck together.  <BR> <BR>Can anyone help
  a rookie out?  <BR> <BR>Thnks  <BR>Nick <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: alan
    picture: 110521
  body: If you&#39;re testing the font in TextEdit under OS X, I&#39;m pretty sure
    that TextEdit doesn&#39;t support kerning unless the font is AAT. That means PostScript
    Type 1, OpenType, and TrueType will show no kerning in that application. Very
    lame. Is this how you&#39;re doing it?
  created: '2003-06-06 14:23:17'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '<i>Lame?</i> That&#39;s a little harsh. I think it&#39;s rather a pleasant
    surprise that an application such as TextEdit supports kerning at all. I can&#39;t
    think of any non-graphics or non-DTP programs that do it in OS 9, even at such
    a rudimentary level. <BR> <BR>I would assume that Nick is having kerning problems
    with programs that would normally be <i>expected</i> to support kerning &#40;graphics
    or DTP programs&#41;. '
  created: '2003-06-06 21:31:51'
- author:
    name: twitch
  body: I am using the fonts in Adobe Illustrator <BR> <BR>Does Kerning then only
    work with certain programs all together? <BR> <BR>&#39;Cause I&#39;d rather have
    a font specifically kerned with specific letter combinations&#34; <BR> <BR> <BR>Thanks
    <BR>Nick
  created: '2003-06-06 21:51:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Make sure you are using the most up to date version of Illustrator with OS
    X. I recently had trouble with missing kerning in PostScript fonts with this combination
    because I forgot to update Illustrator 10 to the newest version &#40;10.0.3&#41;
    when I switched to a new machine running OS X 10.2.4. The same goes for InDesign.
  created: '2003-06-07 05:04:28'
- author:
    name: alan
    picture: 110521
  body: Ok, &#34;lame&#34; may be too harsh, but it is disappointing. You&#39;d think
    with a &#34;modern&#34; OS, they could support kerning in more font formats. Then
    again, if we&#39;re talking type, the term &#34;modern&#34; could put us back
    in the 1800s! <BR> <BR>Alan
  created: '2003-06-08 03:56:21'
- author:
    name: typotect
    picture: 110390
  body: 'None of my postscript fonts had kerning when I moved to OSX. Here&#39;s a
    crappy and inconvenient solution that should allow you to view kerning: <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t
    install your fonts in the library/fonts folder. Don&#39;t use font management
    software either. Illustrator does not read metrics info when the fonts are stored
    here. Instead you must put them here: hardDrive/library/application support/adobe/fonts.
    <BR> <BR>Try that and I bet you&#39;ll have kerning again. Newer versions of illustrator
    may have fixed this, I dunno.'
  created: '2003-06-11 21:31:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Karl--That will work. I know, because that&#39;s what I did at first. The
    updates <i>do</i> fix the kerning problem. It seems to me to be a more sensible
    solution. Plus, they are free, so what&#39;s the problem?
  created: '2003-06-12 04:05:34'
date: '2003-06-05 17:22:35'
title: Kerning with FOG?
...
