---
author:
  name: at_zero
body: help! <BR>i need to find out what font this is for dave stevenson&#39;s photoshop
  class! <BR>its from the movie
comments:
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: Looks like <a href="http://www.fonthaus.com/products/fonts/view.cfm?SKU=PN10135">Luther</a>,
    except the designer took the lower-case s and o and increased them to the cap
    height. It also looks a bit extended, and, of course, distressed.
  created: '2004-02-04 19:51:29'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Good call, Chesh! I was looking in the wrong places.
  created: '2004-02-04 19:53:54'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: Thanks to Identifont, which worked for me for once. Though the reason I used
    it -- that if anything the identifier would be that straight middle on the S --
    was undercut by the fact that I was looking for the wrong glyph. In the end, neither
    the upper- or lower-case s had anything to do with the id. So I got extremely
    lucky.  <BR> <BR>By the way, given my responses to Identifont&#39;s questions,
    Coquette came up as a better match than Luther. Thought you&#39;d like to know.
  created: '2004-02-04 19:59:19'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: <i>By the way, given my responses to Identifont&#39;s questions, Coquette
    came up as a better match than Luther. Thought you&#39;d like to know.</i> <BR>
    <BR>It sometimes comes up with surprising and perplexing results. Imagine my chagrin
    when Arial used to come up as a possible match for my Proxima Sans.
  created: '2004-02-04 20:22:51'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: Don&#39;t let it get you down Mark. Identifont&#39;s data base is an eclectic
    selection &#40;to put it nicely&#41;, and some choices are rather subjective calls,
    even if you have the whole font in front of you, which is rare for ID&#39;ing.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not trying to suggest that maybe the database is skewed towards
    affiliates/sponsors ...   well, yes I am!
  created: '2004-02-04 21:28:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Oh, I don&#39;t let it get me down. I just think it&#39;s funny.
  created: '2004-02-04 21:59:50'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Man I can&#39;t make head nor tails from this Identifont.  <BR>The few times
    I tried to use it I became so frustrated  <BR>I just quit. What does our introduction
    say? |i{The best  <BR>font ID technologies can&#39;t match the eye of a typophile.}
  created: '2004-02-04 22:27:26'
date: '2004-02-04 03:55:14'
title: '&#40;x&#41; Edward Scissorhands - Luther &#40;customized&#41; {Chesh}'
...
