---
author:
  name: Gustavo Ferreira
  picture: 110385
body: i am using some self-designed bitmap typefaces in  <BR>a html-based website.
  my intention is to have the  <BR>fonts available in the site by using microsoft  <BR>weft
  &#40;font embedding tool for web&#41; technology.  <BR>it generates compressed font
  objects &#40;.eot&#41; from  <BR>the original type-files and uploads them to the  <BR>server
  with the website. <BR> <BR>before generating the font objects, weft makes a  <BR>list
  of fonts used on the site, and shows some  <BR>attributes of these fonts. the fonts
  i designed  <BR>are classified as &#34;not-embeddable&#34;, and the  <BR>software
  can&#39;t make font objects out of them. <BR> <BR>i used fontographer 4.1 &#40;pc&#41;
  to generate the  <BR>fonts. i couldn
comments:
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Fontlab? :-&#41;
  created: '2003-06-06 20:47:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Fontographer has a long standing bug that incorrectly sets the fstype selection
    field bits. Different software interprets the mangled result in different ways,
    and it is possible that Weft prevents embedding of such fonts. Your best bet is
    to get a copy of <a href="http://www.fontlab.com">FontLab or TypeTool</a>, but
    you may also be able to correctly set the fstype selection field using <a href="http://www.high-logic.com/fcp.html">FontCreator</a>.
  created: '2003-06-06 22:05:46'
- author:
    name: Gustavo Ferreira
    picture: 110385
  body: thanks eduardo and john, <BR> <BR>i found out that it is possible to generate  <BR>embeddable
    fonts in fontographer by altering the  <BR>parameter in the &#34;os/2 embedding&#34;
    field. <BR> <BR>i just tested it, and it worked fine with weft. <BR> <BR>btw,
    has anybody in this forum ever used weft...? <BR> <BR>g&#42;
  created: '2003-06-07 00:44:52'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: If I recall correctly, WEFT will only work on Internet Explorer for Windows.
  created: '2003-06-08 19:31:56'
date: '2003-06-06 20:35:01'
title: How can i make my fonts &#34;embeddable&#34; ...?
...
