---
author:
  name: nikolai
body: 'I&#39;m a student at Art Center College of Design. I would really like to get
  feedback from those currently practicing in the professional world. Obviously each
  individual project dictates the font choices that need to be made. I am looking
  for your opinion on a good base of fonts to use and understand. <BR> <BR>I realize
  there is no clear answer, but would appreciate any feedback you might give. Thank
  You. '
comments:
- author:
    name: mrriddle
  body: 'Nikolai - First off, great question. many new designers interested in Typography
    &#40;eg. myself 7 odd years ago&#41; thinks the more fonts you have the more choice
    you have. <BR> <BR>Not really - the more fonts you have the longer it takes to
    evaluate the possibilities for each project and the more wrong fonts you need
    to wade through before finding something suitable. In the commercial world time
    is morning and therefore you are actually restricting the chances you will find
    a great font inside the deadline! <BR> <BR>That being said I would start with
    a couple of good quality fonts and really know the font inside out before buying
    more.  <BR> <BR>Know what the designer intended, know if the target audience is
    &#40;over&#41;used to the font, what attitude it conveys subliminally. How dark
    it makes the page, whether it suits looser or tighter leading and what point size
    is most suitable for different lengths of copy.  <BR> <BR>Also know how the family
    fits together. How much emphasis does a bold give to the roman, maybe the black
    weight will work better, or maybe the italic is different enough for emphasis.
    <BR> <BR>A tiny selection of my workhorse fonts are: <BR>Sans - Frutiger, DIN,
    Avant Garde <BR>Serif - Minion Pro, Adobe Garamond Pro <BR>Script - Voluta Script,
    Pilsner &#40;Letterhead Fonts&#41; <BR> <BR>PS - If you use InDesign for page
    layout always try and use OpenType fonts &#40;good quality&#41; and use the extras
    like ligatures and the correct type of numerals for the task at hand.'
  created: '2004-02-11 11:02:26'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: 'I think the catagories are much along Daniel&#39;s suggestion but with an
    addition: <BR> <BR>Headline: Fonts that you wouldn&#39;t set text in like Brok
    or Poster by Font Bureau <BR> <BR>Promotional: Fonts you might set one or two
    words in, think Font Diner fonts. These would commonly be seen on packaging or
    point of sale.'
  created: '2004-02-11 13:38:49'
- author:
    name: matt_desmond
    picture: 109993
  body: 'I would try to go for one or two fonts from each stylistic /time period category.
    This way you can cover most of the different options there are for just about
    any situation.  <BR> <BR>Blackletter: Fraktur &#40;Fette Fraktur&#41;, Textura
    &#40;Goudy Text&#41; <BR>Serif: Venetian &#40;Jenson&#41;, Transitional &#40;Baskerville&#41;,
    Modern &#40;Bodoni&#41;, Postmodern &#40;Eidetic&#41; <BR>Script: a brush script,
    formal script, and handwriting <BR>Sans: Grotesque &#40;FB Grotesque&#41;, Humanist
    &#40;Gill&#41;, Institutional/technical &#40;Helvetica, Eurostyle&#41; <BR>Display:
    Postmodern/Classic &#40;Mason&#41;, Vernacular signage &#40;Los Feliz&#41; <BR>Calligraphic:
    Uncial &#40;American Uncial&#41; etc. etc. <BR> <BR>This is obviously a small
    list, but you get the general idea, I hope. <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-11 17:17:09'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: This would be my list of fonts that are important enough that everyone should
    know how to use them well. There are a bunch that I thought about putting on this
    list, but in the end, learning to use Helvetica means you&#39;ll be able to use
    Univers, etc. as well. <BR> <BR>Helvetica &#40;really hard to use well, but man
    it looks great when it&#39;s done right, ala Designer&#39;s Republic&#41; <BR>
    <BR>Garamond &#40;classic workhorse&#41; <BR> <BR>Caslon &#40;the other classic
    workhorse&#41; <BR> <BR>Bodoni &#40;the other, other classic workhorse&#41; <BR>
    <BR>Futura &#40;simple and perfect, much easier to get right than Helvetica&#41;
    <BR> <BR>DIN &#40;for any sort of industrial-nuanced application this font looks
    great, but it&#39;s a bit tough to use well&#41; <BR> <BR>Gill Sans &#40;humanistic
    sans serifs have always been easy for me to use, but they do seem to require a
    careful eye in the letterspacing&#41; <BR> <BR>Optima &#40;the subtlties of this
    face make is difficult to use, and it&#39;s horrible mis-use as &#34;the hospital
    font&#34; makes good uses of it breathtaking&#41; <BR> <BR>FF Meta &#40;one of
    the best designed typefaces of the last 10 years, and remarkably easy to use&#41;
    <BR> <BR>ITC Century &#40;a retro-classic, hard to use well&#41; <BR> <BR>Franklin
    Gothic &#40;not quite geometric, not quite humanistic, more personality than Helvetica,
    less than Gill&#41;
  created: '2004-02-11 21:17:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'You&#39;ve alluded to an interesting question: <BR> <BR>What makes a font
    &#34;easy to use&#34;? <BR> <BR>&#40;If this is juicy enough it should get its
    own thread.&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-11 21:33:27'
- author:
    name: vwcruisn
  body: What term are you? Im 6th term graphic design at art center. great question
    btw.
  created: '2004-02-12 06:53:34'
- author:
    name: nikolai
  body: 'Thanks to everyone for the feedback so far. '
  created: '2004-02-12 07:37:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Well, since you said &#34;know how to use&#34; not &#34;own,&#34; I&#39;d
    include the following &#40;not a complete list&#41; <BR> <BR><b>Gill Sans</b>
    <BR>It&#39;s <i>everywhere</i>. I swear, I&#39;m sick of using it, no matter how
    nice it is. <BR> <BR><b>Helvetica or Helvetica Neue</b> &#40;complete family&#41;
    <BR>This includes the extended and condensed weights. Another one that you can&#39;t
    avoid. <BR> <BR><b>Adobe Garamond</b> &#40;Pro, if possible&#41; <BR>I quite like
    it, and it&#39;s common. It presents interesting challenges at smaller sizes,
    due to its more fragile features, and small x-height. <BR> <BR><b>FF Meta</b>
    <BR>The ubiquitous Humanist sans. High legibility, &#39;the next Helvetica&#39;
    for a while. Unavoidable. <BR> <BR><b>Futura</b> &#40;not sure which is best&#41;
    <BR>Classic geometric sans. Very common. <BR> <BR><b>Adobe Minion Family</b> &#40;Pro
    if possible&#41; <BR>Solid, a workhorse of book typography. See Bringhurst&#39;s
    <i>Elements of Typographic Style</i>. Very comprehensive family. <BR> <BR><b>Bodoni</b>
    &#40;again, not sure which version, maybe not Bauer as it&#39;s got very hight
    contrasts&#41; <BR>The archetypical Neo Classical font. Haven&#39;t seen it around
    as much lately &#40;at least in my line of work&#41;, but I think it&#39;s a must.
    <BR> <BR><b>Frutiger</b> and <b>Univers Families</b> <BR>Adrian Frutiger&#39;s
    classic sans fonts. More personality than Helvetica, less than Meta &#40;IMO&#41;.
    In short, Frutiger is friendly and Univers is serious. Another pair you can&#39;t
    avoid. <BR> <BR>A <b>Gothic &#40;Bell, Trade, Franklin&#41;</b> <BR>I saw a lot
    of these when I was in school. They seem to be waning again, but familiarity with
    them is important. <BR> <BR>These stick out in my mind as &#34;need to know&#34;.
    There are so many others that I see a lot, like Mrs. Eaves. These are all very
    good to know, but aren&#39;t on my top-tier list of ones you need to know how
    to work with. Again, this is a partial list.
  created: '2004-02-12 19:03:46'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>For me, easy to use type means that no matter what size, leading,
    letterspacing, etc. the setting just &#34;feels&#34; right. It looks professional,
    it looks appropriate. <BR> <BR>For me, Helvetica is a typeface I just don&#39;t
    have the hang of yet. I use it very infrequently, but for some reason, it just
    never turns out right. Either I set it too large, or space it out too much, or
    too little. There&#39;s a middle ground that I can&#39;t seem to hit. There&#39;s
    a few other typefaces like that for me as well. <BR> <BR>However, Futura seems
    to just set perfect, with little tweaking. When I set 18 point heads with 9 point
    subs, it looks right. When I letterspace it for effect, it looks right. Meta is
    the same way. I don&#39;t think it&#39;s so much the kerning tables, but the character
    shapes. The challenge with Helvetica is getting over the lack of continuity between
    letterforms. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m sure I could ramble on and on about this.
  created: '2004-02-13 20:49:03'
- author:
    name: mrriddle
  body: '&#34;See Bringhurst&#39;s <i>Elements of Typographic Style.</i>&#34; <BR>
    <BR>This is the one occasion where an All Caps, Bold Italic with an underline
    and a dropshadow might just be appropriate. ;&#41;  <BR> <BR>This is a book that
    should be given to every Graphic Design student. If you can&#39;t enjoy reading
    this book you should be made to shift into another course - eg. Graphic Stylist
    not designer. I don&#39;t know how I possibly called myself a designer throwing
    text onto the page without knowing or realising the subtleties of the craft that
    is contained within this typographers bible.'
  created: '2004-02-14 01:08:29'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Everyone should learn NOT tu use Avant Garde, it
  created: '2004-02-14 02:16:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Sean, it seems to me that the easier a font is to use the less focus it has.
    <BR>For example, a font that looks decent at greatly varying point sizes can&#39;t
    work <i>really</i> well at any. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-02-14 04:49:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '&#62;For example, a font that looks decent at greatly varying point sizes
    can&#39;t work really well at any. &#60; <BR> <BR>This is the silliest thing I
    have every heard from you. And there have been a great deal of silly things. <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-14 12:33:46'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: Hector, I think everyone should learn to use Bookman Bold Italic Swash. What
    a useful text face. And courier is a classic favorite.
  created: '2004-02-14 12:43:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: James, we just have different ideas of where the threshold between display
    and text is. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-02-14 16:22:24'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Hector, I think everyone should learn to use Bookman Bold Italic Swash. What
    a useful text face. And courier is a classic favorite. <BR> <BR> <BR>I don
  created: '2004-02-17 23:47:30'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: Sorry Hector, it was a poor attempt at making a joke. Bookman Bold Italic
    Swash has become popular again and I hate that face and its surely not a text
    face. And who could love Courier its like anti design. I was joking with you because
    of your remark about Avant Guarde. Maybe if we ignore these faces they will go
    away. <BR>
  created: '2004-02-18 12:13:40'
- author:
    name: komitlak
    picture: 109966
  body: I whould add Officina Sans and Officina Serif especially for use in cyrillic.
  created: '2004-02-18 22:49:57'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Nevermind Daniel, it
  created: '2004-02-19 08:48:46'
- author:
    name: whoisdan
    picture: 110024
  body: 'Filosofia is getting around these days... <BR> <BR>Bodoni is fun to play
    around with. <BR> <BR>Univers I find great. <BR> <BR>TheSans I&#39;m getting into.
    <BR> <BR>Sabon is amazing. <BR> <BR>Kottke&#39;s silkscreen. Free and good. <BR>
    <BR>Hrant&#39;s Mana is some neat stuff, and demonstrates amazing foresight. <BR>
    <BR>Anything made out of real wood. &#40;no fake wood!&#41; <BR> <BR>Georgia is
    fantastic on screen and even in print. <BR> <BR>Lucida Grande is my on-screen
    sans serif choice. <BR> <BR>New Century Schoolbook is one of my all-time favorites.
    <BR> <BR>Futura I think is extremely hard to get right. If done well, it&#39;s
    fantastic. <BR> <BR>Janson Text is solid. <BR> <BR>Some form of Garamond. Preferably
    a good version. I can&#39;t remember what&#39;s good. Berthold, maybe? <BR> <BR>Galliard
    is pretty great. <BR> <BR> <BR>Faces I&#39;m not so thrilled with: <BR> <BR>Mason.
    Nah. Reminds me of Queensryche and only Queensryche. <BR> <BR>Anything Spiekermann.
    Sorry. They look corny. FF Unit as a small text face isn&#39;t too bad, but anybody
    who titles his book stupidly just to include and &#34;fi&#34; ligature rubs me
    the wrong way. &#34;Find out&#34;?? How about &#34;learn&#34;? &#40;Stop Stealing
    Sheep and find out How Type Works&#41; The title just doesn&#39;t work. <BR> <BR>Frutiger
    is sterile. <BR> <BR>Arial. Some Chicago Transit signs are in Helvetica. Some
    are in Arial. Arial is a disaster. At least Helvetica can do its job. <BR> <BR>Verdana.
    Sorry, Carter. <BR> <BR>Copperplate Gothic. Try again.'
  created: '2004-02-19 18:11:21'
- body: '&#34;some form of garamond&#34;  as in, Sabon?   ;&#41; <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.textism.com/textfaces/">
    some link I haven&#39;t looked all the way through yet but looks like it could
    be of interest</a> <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-24 03:20:11'
date: '2004-02-11 09:48:27'
title: 20 fonts every graphic designer should know how to use
...
