---
author:
  name: tsprowl
  picture: 110458
body: ' after going through the Lopez link bj just provided I hoped onto some search
  engines, in search of his name associated to Caslon anywhere else, didn&#39;t see
  it, but.   <BR> <BR>I find it hilarious how many people claim to have designed &#39;Caslon&#39;,
  not mentioning its a variation: <BR> <BR>Adobe/Afga Caslon yet normally referred
  to as Adobe Caslon &#40;so that&#39;s ok&#41; <BR>Bitstream&#39;s Caslon <BR>Lopez
  and his Calson <BR>Paratype&#39;s Calson <BR>EFF Caslon <BR>Omnibus Typografi&#39;s
  Calson <BR>of course William Caslon&#39;s Caslon <BR> <BR>I&#39;m sure the list
  goes on <BR> <BR>of course this isin&#39;t to mention the weights, and alternates
  each has within their own families <BR> <BR>Perhaps there should be a category for
  the classics now in classification, listed by designer and year they were altered.
  I now have absolutely no idea who did Caslon 540, thought I thought it was an Adobe.
  <BR> <BR>anyone have another example of this happening to other classics? '
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Garamond might actually be a worse case, since: <BR>1. His name wasn&#39;t
    always used &#40;or it was spelled funny&#41;. <BR>2. His name was used for designs
    he didn&#39;t do. <BR>3. The name is used in &#34;grunge&#34; designs like the
    recent Chank one. <BR>4. ITC made a caricature of the style. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-05 15:50:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Hrant, most of these same things can be said almost equally of Caslon. <BR>
    <BR>1. During the &#34;Caslon revival&#34; of the late 1800s, a few direct copies
    of Wm. Caslon&#39;s types were released in America without his name attached &#40;cf.
    Laurence Johnson&#39;s <I>Old Style</I>, ca. 1860s&#41;. 2. <I>Caslon Antique</I>
    has nothing whatsoever to do with the original Caslons. 3. <I>Not Caslon</I> might
    be considered the epitome of one strain of the &#34;grunge&#34; style.&#42; 4.
    Okay, so ITC didn&#39;t do an original caricature of Caslon; Benguiat just drew
    from earlier caricatures of Caslon &#40;<I>ITC Caslon 224</I>&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#42;&#91;BTW,
    John Downer wrote an interesting overview of latterday Caslons in a piece for
    Emigre in conjunction with the release of <I>Not Caslon</I>.&#93; <BR> <BR>One
    thing further complicating the identificaton of Caslon types is that, unlike with
    Claude Garamond, there was an entire &#34;dynasty&#34; of Caslons -- several of
    them even all named William. The foundry produced a wider variety of type over
    a greater period of time than Garamond, and so there is a broader range of designs
    that may lay claim to the name. <BR> <BR>The desire to attach an established and
    influential name to a new work -- whether in homage or to &#34;borrow&#34; credibility
    -- is nothing new. Bodoni and Jenson are a few others who, alongside Caslon and
    Garamond, lend their names to a number of designs -- some more-or-less authentic,
    some not at all so. <BR> <BR>BTW, Caslon No. 540 was first cut and released by
    the American Type Founders, circa 1890s. The Adobe type reference that I have
    even plainly acknowledges the ATF origins. <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2002-09-05 19:02:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' BTW, there was also a nice article in an old &#40;and sold-out&#41; issue
    of &#40;now dead?&#41; Serif magazine comparing different Caslons. I have a copy
    from a while back, but haven&#39;t actually read it yet... <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-05 19:38:28'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: ' borrowing a name if even in homage should be illegal. wait a minute, it
    is! poor William can&#39;t sue though I guess. <BR> <BR>I remember the uproar
    over democratika and democratika and its change to americratika or something after
    a naming dispute.  <BR> <BR>Why don&#39;t these things happen with the Caslon&#39;s
    and Garamonds of our world. Like I said...with the copying of it all, there should
    be a whole new category for rip-offs, either in its naming or design.  <BR> <BR>NotCaslon
    not included. that can go in the fringe pile. '
  created: '2002-09-05 20:45:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Actually, Tanya, a surname is generally not entitled to trademark status
    unless it acquires &#34;secondary meaning&#34; &#91;specific legal term&#93; through
    long and widespread use. One could argue that Caslon and Garamond have, in fact,
    acquired secondary meaning by now. In which case the right to the trademark would
    go to the party who could show first use.  <BR> <BR>William and Claude, of course,
    never called their types Caslon and Garamond. They simply made them. And others
    would refer to them by maker and size as Caslon&#39;s <I>long primer</I> or Garamond&#39;s
    <I>gros romain</I>. I think that the practice of naming specific designs began
    in the mid- to late-1800s with the American foundries, about the same time as
    point-based sizes were instituted. I believe that in both cases &#40;Caslon and
    Garamond&#41;, the first use would probably be ATF &#40;or one of the foundries
    that they absorbed&#41;.  <BR> <BR>Since ATF is now defunct and its assets completely
    dispersed, I believe that any claim to trademark in the simple names &#34;Caslon&#34;
    or &#34;Garamond&#34; could be declared &#34;abandoned&#34; -- which would be
    the trademark equivalent of public domain. However, a unique derivation like &#34;Adobe
    Caslon&#34; or &#34;ITC Garamond&#34; is considered a trademarkable name &#40;although
    I confess I&#39;m not totally clear on the intricacies of why&#41;, and so you&#39;ll
    find that the appropriate foundries have registered these. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not
    familiar with the Democratika incident you refer to, but that sounds like a whole
    different matter, since Democratika is a distinctive mark and perfectly trademarkable.
    <BR> <BR>Incidentally, if William Caslon were alive today and sufficiently famous
    and someone else used his name for a font, he could conceivably sue to get them
    to change it -- not because he would own any trademark in the name, but because
    the use of his name might establish a fraudulent association and this would fall
    under &sect;1125. &#40;&sect;43&#41; of the Lanham Act. <BR> <BR>&#91;Standard
    Disclaimer: I&#39;m not an IP attorney; I just like to talk like one sometimes.&#93;
    <BR> <BR>-- K.'
  created: '2002-09-06 01:02:11'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: ' wow kent thanks for the info, its just what I wanted to know. - It makes
    sense '
  created: '2002-09-06 14:31:11'
date: '2002-09-05 14:51:44'
title: Caslon
...
