---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: This site was announced during this year&#39;s Grammy Award&#39;s Show. Does
  the type world need something similar? There are a few sites that have similar information,
  but from my first browse through &#34;What&#39;s The Download&#34; it seems that
  maybe a more forceful stance could be taken. One initial idea, off the top of my
  head, would be a site to which all foundries could link. A site that would cover
  everything, explain everything. <BR> <BR>Very interesting.
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: When I say &#34;all foundries&#34; I&#39;m including foundries that also have
    freeware fonts. There is no getting around, and there is nothing wrong with, freeware
    or shareware ... type included. It would be in everyone&#39;s best interest.
  created: '2004-02-12 20:23:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Clever propaganda from the RIAA, targeted at the MP3-hoarding  <BR>youth.
    They are intentionally avoiding the forceful stance and I <BR>think it&#39;s a
    smart idea &#40;for their agenda&#41;. <BR> <BR>Nice idea, Tiff. I think &#34;downloading
    fonts&#34; is a good parallel to  <BR>this in some ways, and educating the font-ignorant
    public can&#39;t hurt.
  created: '2004-02-12 21:54:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Tiffany, I think this would have been a great idea when font piracy was just
    beginning: now it&#39;s kind of too late and there&#39;s not enough money to justify
    making a site like this!  :-/ <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-13 00:59:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Don&#39;t you think, then, that it is a little late for the music industry?
    I can see that the monetary comparison is greatly different, but it still seems
    like a good idea even today.
  created: '2004-02-13 01:03:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Yeah, I guess it&#39;s too late for them too. But they have a lot of cash
    they can throw at the problem. <BR> <BR>Maybe the people running the music biz
    see the waterfall ahead,they&#39;re just paddling backwards to milk as much cash
    out as possible before the plunge. It&#39;s not like they&#39;re gonna end in
    the poorhouse either way. <BR> <BR>In the type world, we can only go up now!  :-/
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-02-13 01:13:45'
date: '2004-02-12 20:20:39'
title: Http://www.whatsthedownload.com/
...
