---
author:
  name: flow14
  picture: 110569
body: I&#39;m having trouble generating a font from FOG... <BR> <BR>I&#39;m running
  OS X 10.2.6 w/Classic 9.2 and FOG 4.1.5 <BR> <BR>Every time I generate the font
  in question, the capital A <BR>does not show up and none of the outlines are generated.
  <BR>I&#39;ve tried correcting the path direction and copying all the <BR>characters
  into a new font file, to no avail. <BR> <BR>I tried generating one of my old font
  files, and it seemed to <BR>work fine.  <BR> <BR>Does anyone have any troubleshooting
  tips or suggestions?
comments:
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Have you tried starting up with Classic as the boot OS  <BR>&#40;as opposed
    to launching Classic from inside OS X&#41;? <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not familiar with
    this particular bug, but give that <BR>a try. Sometimes Classic apps don&#39;t
    play well when <BR>running inside OS X. <BR> <BR>Although, as some others have
    discovered, some newer <BR>Macs won&#39;t boot into Classic.
  created: '2003-06-09 22:56:06'
- author:
    name: flow14
    picture: 110569
  body: When I originally generated the font, I was still running 9-- <BR>I&#39;ve
    only recently upgraded to X. <BR> <BR>After a little more testing, I&#39;ve found
    that all of the issues <BR>crop up in FH10. If I set everything up in, say, AI10,
    it <BR>works just fine. <BR> <BR>I tried regenerating some of my older font files
    in Classic, <BR>&#40;running OS X&#41; and they don&#39;t seem to have any issues.
    <BR> <BR>Would stray or overlapping points cause this issue?
  created: '2003-06-12 18:47:41'
date: '2003-06-09 18:00:55'
title: FOG &#43; OS X = I&#39;m frustrated
...
