---
author:
  name: '.00'
body: I am building a CFF/OpenType family for a client that insists that two of the
  weights of the multi-weight family be named Book and Regular. I have always avoided
  having both of these names in the same family. <BR> <BR>The fonts work correctly
  in Illustrator CS &#40;both Mac and PC&#41; but in InDesign CS whenever Regular
  is selected it immediately changes to Book. This happens both on Mac and PC. <BR>
  <BR>Anyone else have this experience.
comments:
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: If you change Book to something slightly different <BR>does it do the same
    thing? Say, Booken or something? <BR>My guess would be that ID thinks of Book
    and Regular <BR>as the same thing. <BR> <BR>Maybe related, recently I&#39;ve found
    that ID CS needs <BR>to be restarted to show recently renamed OT fonts.  <BR>I&#39;ve
    been testing a big batch of OT fonts lately and <BR>been haunted by this.
  created: '2004-02-17 23:52:57'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: As a follow up, I was able to rename one <BR>of my fonts Book and recreate
    the problem <BR>described. Is this the end of Book?
  created: '2004-02-18 02:29:46'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: Would it work to change the name &#34;Book&#34; to &#34;Text&#34;?
  created: '2004-02-18 05:16:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Yes, everything works fine when Book is changed to Text. <BR> <BR>But the
    client still prefers Book and Regular.
  created: '2004-02-18 12:18:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: James,  <BR> <BR>can you build a OpenType TT &#40;.ttf&#41; version of the
    family and tell us if the problem persists? Also, what are you using to build
    the fonts?  <BR> <BR>Adam <BR>
  created: '2004-02-18 17:13:22'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: I can also confirm this problem. I was very surprised when it happened the
    first time and until now I had no time to care about the problem - but I will
    have to do that ... <BR>&#40;Happened in InDesign CS; Mac OS X 10.3.2; with an
    old and often used type 1 font I created with Fontographer - it has the styles
    &#34;regular&#34; and &#34;book&#34; and I never had problems with it before&#41;.
    <BR>Thank you InDesign for new problems ... life could be so easy, but ...
  created: '2004-02-22 02:15:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: So, this bug has been verified by the InDesign team and I have the bug number.
    It was actually present in InDesign 1.0, fixed in 1.5, still okay in 2.0, and
    then somehow broken again in CS. Our apologies. We will make it right.... <BR>
    <BR>T
  created: '2004-02-22 03:31:00'
date: '2004-02-17 22:44:19'
title: When Book is the same as Regular in InD CS
...
