---
author:
  name: dan
  picture: 109994
body: <a href="http://www.creativepro.com/story/news/20889.html" target="_blank">http://www.creativepro.com/story/news/20889.html</a>
  <BR> <BR>Is it really needed?
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think the idea behind it is really wonderful. It is, after all, a calligraphic
    typeface. Some in this same vein do not offer enough variation to create something
    so close to traditional calligraphy for the price. The version that came with
    OSX, for instance isn&#39;t near as complete as this new one. '
  created: '2004-02-18 19:02:44'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <i>Is it really needed?</i> <BR> <BR>Yes, if you consider that the previous
    version of Zapfino only had AAT features and not OT features. Zapfino Extra&#39;s
    features work in InDesign; the older Zapfino had to be used manually. OT features
    mean that it can be used as intended in a professional app like InDesign and not
    just an OS utility like TextEdit. <BR> <BR>Make sense?
  created: '2004-02-18 19:21:19'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: I think its great. A nice alternative to Bickham Script.
  created: '2004-02-18 22:28:41'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: '&#62;&#34;Zapfino Extra&#34; clearly marks a new breakthrough in the use
    of attractive and dynamic typographic solutions with a computer. <BR> <BR>I am
    quite sick of the word &#34;solutions&#34;. Why does everyone seem to be using
    it? Is it marketing-speak?'
  created: '2004-02-19 10:36:54'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: Of the four people who responded, when was the last time you used Zapfino
    in a job. In my case never, so why would I need a new fancier one. I live in NYC
    and haven&#39;t driven a car in 11yrs. If someone gave me a car it would be useless.
  created: '2004-02-19 20:24:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Comparing a font to a car is a little bit of a stretch, don&#39;t you think?
    It isn&#39;t the most cost effective thing to go out and upgrade your car just
    because their is a newer version available. Or in your case, as you don&#39;t
    need a car, to go out and purchase one.  <BR> <BR> However, I would think that
    someone who might use Zapfino, and know how to use Zapfino, but want more than
    the copy that is given with the OS ... well I think this new version has many
    added options. <BR> <BR>No, I haven&#39;t used in a job recently. But, if I were
    to have the opportunity, I would license the new version for the added options.
    <BR>
  created: '2004-02-19 20:34:11'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: == Off-topic ==  <BR> <BR>By the way, the phrase is &#34;Gilding the lilly.&#34;
    &#40;As in, &#34;covering with gold &#40;gilt&#41; something that is already beautiful
    in its own right.&#34;&#41;
  created: '2004-02-19 20:39:11'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: 'Shakespeare actually wrote &#40;in King John&#41; '
  created: '2004-02-20 19:35:06'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: The designs of the characters themselves, and the OT/AAT intelligence built
    into the font to more effectively use those characters and their variants, are
    two different things. The addition of OT tables fixes the one main issue I have
    with a design like Zapfino, so I applaud Linotype for their continued pursuit
    of this project. Perhaps when the correct tools are available, the next Zapfino
    will include both OT and AAT tables. And who knows, maybe even <a href="http://graphite.sil.org">Graphite</a>.
  created: '2004-02-20 20:42:16'
date: '2004-02-18 17:02:22'
title: Guilding the Lilly?
...
