---
author:
  name: leadtype
body: ' I&#39;ve been using News Gothic in 0S 9 with ATM Deluxe 4.6.1 for a long time
  now without any problems. Upon upgrading to OS X and Suitcase, the font no longer
  works. I tried a friend of mines copy of News Gothic and get the same result. I
  tried it with the demo version of Font Reserve also with the same results. Font
  Doctor says the font isn&#39;t corupt. Same with Extensis tech support. Has anyone
  had this problem with News Gothic or any other face? Thanks. '
comments:
- author:
    name: leadtype
  body: ' It&#39;s me again. Some more info. Only some of the faces show up, like
    Roman and Italic but not Bold Condensed. This is a real problem because this is
    our company typeface and I&#39;m literally stuck in OS 9 just to use this font.
    It&#39;s ridiculous. Could it be something with the production of the font and
    OS X, so maybe it&#39;s Bitstream&#39;s problem? Maybe I&#39;ll try contacting
    them. <BR> <BR>Any ideas or advice would help, I need this resolved quickly. '
  created: '2002-09-09 19:51:17'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' I have no problems with any of the Bitstream News  <BR>Gothic weights under
    OS X. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t have the solution, but have you tried bypassing  <BR>Suitcase
    and dumping them in your Library: Fonts  folder? '
  created: '2002-09-10 00:10:40'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' From what I&#39;ve heard, if you&#39;re using a couple  <BR>hundred fonts
    or less, you could get away without  <BR>Suitcase at all. Apparently, it&#39;s
    managing  <BR>thousands of fonts that truly warrants a font  <BR>utility. <BR>
    <BR>&#40;This last bit is basically hearsay from another  <BR>OS X forum. I haven&#39;t
    tried this as I don&#39;t fit in <BR>that category. So take it for what it&#39;s
    worth.&#41; '
  created: '2002-09-10 00:17:15'
date: '2002-09-08 20:36:36'
title: News Gothic and OS X
...
