---
author:
  name: ben
body: 'Hello! <BR> <BR>I&#39;m an undergrad design student about to enter my final
  year of university, and I was wondering if I could get a few suggestions on a serif
  and sans-serif combination that could be applied consistently to the written work
  I&#39;ll produce this year. I&#39;ve been using FF Scala and Scala Sans for the
  past few years to set my formal texts, and while they have served me well, I&#39;m
  looking for something different. <BR> <BR>Some basic criteria: <BR>&#42; Work well
  in shortish texts &#40;&#60;1000 words&#41; and longer texts &#40;~3000 words up
  to a 10,000 word thesis&#41;. <BR>&#42; Combine well together, but also able to
  stand on their own. On occasion, I might want to set a short document entirely in
  the sans-serif face. <BR>&#42; Versatile enough to be used in a standard-sized document,
  the occasional large-format poster, and the very-occasional slideware presentation.
  <BR>&#42; Combine well with the images I&#39;ll be using this year: namely, interface
  mockups and screen grabs, various diagrams, and maps and photos of urban environments.
  <BR> <BR>As way of additional reference, the project I&#39;m working on this year
  is technology-based, utilizing a mobile computing device hooked up to a GPS unit
  and connected to the internet. The written material will draw quite heavily on such
  areas as: urban and spatial practices, architecture, the city in art, design and
  literature, new media theory, anthropology/sociology, Deleuzian philosophy, interaction
  design/human-computer interaction, information visualization, mapping/cartography.
  <BR> <BR>Any help very much appreciated!'
comments:
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: You might consider Sabon for the sans serif. It doesn&#39;t require ligatures,  <BR>won&#39;t
    give your readers eyestrain at low resolution, and would probably  <BR>look okay
    with the Scala Sans you have been using. It will seem vaguely  <BR>French to the
    Deleuze crowd. I don&#39;t think your fonts should show off --  <BR>you want something
    that won&#39;t get in the way of the content of your writing.
  created: '2004-02-22 04:46:10'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: Oops, I meant Sabon for the serif of course.
  created: '2004-02-22 04:49:53'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: I&#39;m a fan of Eric Gill, so I&#39;ve been wanting to see Gill Sans and
    Joanna paired together, but I always feel that both of these faces are a little
    more on the display side and am not sure about how legible either would be for
    long blocks of text. Anyone wanna weigh in on this suggestion? i&#39;d like to
    hear yer thoughts on whether this&#39;d work &#40;i hope this doesn&#39;t derail
    your thread, Ben!&#41; <BR>P.S. I just checked out Scala&amp;Scala Sans &#40;I
    wasn&#39;t familiar with the faces befor I posted, sorry&#41; and it seems to
    me that Scala&amp;Scala Sans have a lot in common with Joanna and Gill Sans &#40;but
    i could be wrong&#41; so if you&#39;re looking for something of a different look,
    I guess my suggestion wouldn&#39;t work that well.
  created: '2004-02-22 05:02:38'
- author:
    name: nicolai
    picture: 110537
  body: How about <a href="http://www.typotheque.com/fedra_serif/index.html" target="_blank">
    Fedra Serif</a> and <a href="http://www.typotheque.com/fedra_sans/index.html"
    target="_blank"> Fedra Sans</a> by Peter Bilak?
  children:
  - author:
      name: cmc
    body: "Nice font, <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/site/static_pages.php?id=14\">nasty
      EULA</a>.\r\n\r\n<em>6. You agree that any derivative works created by you from
      the Typotheque Font Software, including, but not limited to, software, EPS files,
      or other electronic works, are considered derivative works under the Law of
      the Netherlands and use of the derivative work is subject to the terms and conditions
      of this License Agreement. Derivative works may not be sublicensed, sold, leased,
      rented, lent, or given away without written permission from Typotheque. Typotheque
      shall not be responsible for unauthorized, modified and/or regenerated software
      or derivative works. Embedding of the Typotheque Fonts Software in any form
      is strictly prohibited without an additional license.</em>\r\n\r\nSo any document
      or electronic image that you produce with typefaces from Typotheque belongs
      to them.  This EULA is one of most egregious I've seen.  \r\n"
    created: '2005-12-06 05:45:39'
  created: '2004-02-22 10:21:16'
- author:
    name: ben
  body: 'Thanks Nicolai! Fedra Serif A and Fedra Sans &#40;leaning slightly to Alt&#41;
    look near perfect for my needs: versatile, fresh and contemporary, yet unobtrusive
    and readable. A bit pricey for my student budget, but I think I&#39;ll manage.
    Tops my shortlist, for the moment at least. <BR> <BR>// <BR> <BR>Thanks t christensen!
    I was considering Sabon, I&#39;m just a little unsure if it fits the character
    of my thesis completely. <BR> <BR>// <BR> <BR>Paul: <BR>I like Eric Gill too!
    I&#39;ll have to rule Gill Sans out though &#8211; it&#39;s bundled with OS X
    and its ubiquity is steadily increasing. I personally don&#39;t like Gill Sans
    used in anything longer than a short single page document. And I couldn&#39;t
    use it without thinking of Edward Tufte &#40;<a href="http://www.edwardtufte.com/"
    target="_blank">http://www.edwardtufte.com/</a>&#41; or the London Underground.
    :-&#41; <BR> <BR>// <BR> <BR>On a related note, I was browsing though a few related
    theses, and these are the typefaces used in a few of them &#40;at least, the theses
    which bothered to pay attention to type&#41;: <BR> <BR>Scala Sans <BR>Interstate
    <BR>Akzidenz Grotesk <BR>Meta <BR>Frutiger <BR> <BR>TheMix <BR>Rotis SemiSans
    &#40;used in body text, urgh... difficult to read!&#41; <BR> <BR>Scala <BR>Sabon
    <BR>Plantin <BR>Vendetta <BR>Melior'
  created: '2004-02-22 12:39:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: <i>&#62;I&#39;m a fan of Eric Gill, so I&#39;ve been wanting to see Gill Sans
    and Joanna paired together, but I always feel that both of these faces are a little
    more on the display side and am not sure about how legible either would be for
    long blocks of text.</i> <BR> <BR>Paul, I might &#40;somewhat immodestly&#41;
    suggest Whitman in place of Joanna for any long text. &#40;Whitman PDF specimen
    available at <a href="http://www.kentlew.com/Type/" target="_blank"> www.kentlew.com/Type</a>.&#41;
    <BR> <BR><i>The Virginia Quarterly Review</i> was just recently redesigned by
    Percolator and now uses Whitman and Jeremy Tankard&#39;s <a href="http://www.typography.net"
    target="_blank">Bliss</a> paired together. The combination is reminiscent of what
    you suggest, but &#40;to my eye&#41; much less idiosyncratic, more readable. <BR>
    <BR>Ben, I don&#39;t know that these would necessarily suit your needs. I&#39;m
    mostly just responding to Paul. <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2004-02-22 14:09:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Great idea - I love both typefaces. Can we see a sample anywhere on line of
    them together?
  created: '2004-02-23 03:32:50'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: William -- <BR> <BR>The <i>VQR</i> website is at <a href="http://www.virginia.edu/vqr"
    target="_blank">www.virginia.edu/vqr</a>. But there are no samples of the print
    journal online. &#40;The website still seems to use Gill Sans for text gifs.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Besides, online could not do justice to the wonderful production of the
    <i>VQR</i> -- the proportions, the finish and color of the paper stock. It&#39;s
    not just about typeface pairing; the whole thing works together to make all its
    parts more beautiful. <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2004-02-23 12:55:24'
- author:
    name: boole
  body: So you have taken a look at Thesis Sans and Thesis Serif? <BR> <BR>For serif,
    maybe Dolly? <BR><a href="http://underware.thirstype.com/fonts/dolly/" target="_blank">http://underware.thirstype.com/fonts/dolly/</a>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-02-24 02:08:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">So any document or electronic image that you produce with typefaces from
    Typotheque belongs to them.\r\n\r\nNo. They just don't want their fonts distributed
    via embedding, which is mainly MS Word and PDFs. Documents and images created
    in inDesign, Photoshop, etc. don't embed fonts, so they're not an issue.\r\n\r\nMS
    Word is very problematic, because a document with an embedded font can be distributed
    to a corporate network, thereby installing the font on all terminals of that system,
    which may not be licensed for the font. \r\n\r\nIt would be like if you download
    an image file made by Photoshop, and bingo, the Photoshop application is installed
    on your computer! "
  created: '2005-12-06 18:41:52'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "So you can't distribute a .doc or .pdf file (two ubiquitous formats) if those
    files contain the font for which this EULA is written?\r\n\r\nNot too good for
    corprorate clients (or really any, for that matter.)\r\nIt's basically cutting
    off your nose to spite your face.\r\n\r\nOr is there a way to \"lock in\" these
    fonts to the file in order to prevent distribution? Perhaps I'm misundersatnding."
  created: '2005-12-06 20:10:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> They just don\u2019t want their fonts distributed via\r\n> embedding, which
    is mainly MS Word and PDFs.\r\n\r\nDid you miss the EPS bit? Since a font cannot
    be embedded in an EPS, it implies you can't even do a convert-to-outlines! The
    Emigre EULA has that problem too (in fact it's much more explicit about it). This
    is of course ludicrous, to the point of fascism.\r\n\r\nClaire, talk to Peter
    about it.\r\nI can assure you he's much much nicer than his EULA.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    a EULA is a necessary evil.\r\nBut sometimes it can make a person evil.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 19:05:46'
date: '2004-02-20 17:16:22'
title: Typeface suggestion for a thesis and other written material
...
