---
author:
  name: matthew_dob
body: ' what was it? <BR>under tiffany&#39;s personal profile: Age:  Old enough to
  have used phototypesetting, young enough to know ... hmm. i&#39;ll have to get back
  to you on this. <BR>As my age, roughly stated is : Old enough to have used an acorn,
  I am short on the history of typography &#40;not before 1970, though... My father,
  who was in print jounalism, got a very hands-on experience, which he never tires
  of telling me&#41;. <BR> <BR>Matthew '
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: ' It was a photo-mechanical method of setting type. There would be a film
    negative which had small images of all the characters in a font &#40;or several
    fonts&#41;. Light would be projected through the character images, through a lens,
    and onto photographic paper. Different size type could be set by changing the
    lens&#40;es&#41;. Font changes were made by physically replacing the film negative
    &#40;although most machines allowed two or more negatives to be used at a time&#41;.
    Spacing was controlled mechanically in the earlier machines &#40;e.g., special
    cogs&#41; and electronically on later machines &#40;e.g., ROM cards&#41;. The
    exposed paper would spool up in a light-tight box and then be fed into a developing
    machine &#40;as is still done today on high-end filmsetters&#41;.  <BR> <BR>In
    addition to &#34;machine-set&#34; phototype &#40;i.e., which used a typewriter-like
    keyboard for input and had automatic spacing&#41;, there were &#34;film setters.&#34;
    These worked more like a darkroom enlarger. There was a strip of negative film
    with fairly large images of the characters which would be moved manually using
    cranks to locate and position each character. A strip of photo paper was placed
    below in a bath of developing fluid. The character would be projected onto the
    paper through a red filter, allowing the character to be previewed without exposing
    the paper &#40;photo paper is not sensitive to red light&#41;. Once the character
    was lined up, the filter would be removed and the character would appear on the
    paper. The process was repeated for each character. This method was used mainly
    for headline type. Machine-set phototype was not high-enough quality for large
    headlines. <BR> <BR>Phototypesetting goes back to around the 1940s. It overtook
    metal typesetting by the early 1970s. Digital typesetting is almost as old as
    phototypesetting &#40;and is really a type of phototypesetting&#41;, and didn&#39;t
    become practical &#40;especially for high-quality work&#41; until the late 1970s.
    Mechanical phototypesetting was obsolete by the mid-1980s. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m old
    enough to have used some of the later phototypesetting machines, mostly AM and
    Compugraphic. They were pretty cool to use and you could actually hear the type
    being set. The Compugraphic 7200 &#40;around 1978 or so&#41; was my first taste
    of working with a disk-based file system. Before that, the systems I&#39;d used
    had no mass storage and could only keep one line of type in their tiny memory
    at a time. Once you hit the return key, it set the line and it was gone. <BR>
    <BR>Now, aren&#39;t you sorry you asked? '
  created: '2002-09-11 16:52:29'
- author:
    name: matthew_dob
  body: ' Not at all. Reading that, I kind of feel lucky to live in this digital age.
    I do remember the thrill, and the strangled sound of the dot matrix printer. By
    the time I was about 7, quark had been around quite a bit and was the main tool
    &#40;I think&#41; on my dad&#39;s paper. Since then they have moved onto other
    software &#40;strangely, neither quark nor that adobe program are suitable for
    newspaper production on a large scale - it comes down to thge fact that they cannot
    store many versions of the same article so that they are easy to switch, necessary
    for deadline chasing work&#41;. Anyway, thats about as much as I know &#40;The
    Times does have some very delicious body fonts, though&#41;. '
  created: '2002-09-11 18:06:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: ' Although we thought &#40;mechanical&#41; phototypesetting was pretty neat
    at the time, digital typesetting is better in virtually every way.  <BR> <BR>Page
    layout in the machine was mostly a dream. Instead, you would get long &#34;galleys&#34;
    which had to be carefully cut up and glued onto illustration board &#40;or whatever&#41;.
    Just keeping everything square was a major task. Corrections had to be carefully
    cut out and pasted in by hand, and if you didn&#39;t keep the developer fresh
    they wouldn&#39;t match the existing type. Run-arounds were not for the lazy,
    even simple square ones. Since you had to do a layout before any type was set,
    all the manuscripts had to be counted and measured so you would know how much
    room to leave.  <BR> <BR>Nowadays, it&#39;s so much easier. On the other hand,
    people&#39;s expectations have changed. &#34;It&#39;s all automatic. You just
    push a button, right?&#34; '
  created: '2002-09-11 19:36:13'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: ' Well, I&#39;m just a young pup, but I had a job once where we laid out newspaper
    pages by hand, with a waxing machine and everything. I miss the blue pens! '
  created: '2002-09-11 20:37:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' Did that too, John. Our campus paper just barely <BR>moved to printing out
    the entire page, ads and all. <BR> <BR>Thanks to Mark for a great overview. I
    needed that. '
  created: '2002-09-11 20:41:35'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: ' As someone old enough to have used a lot of <BR>phototypesetting &#40;but
    always as a &#34;client&#34;, <BR>not an operator&#41; I also think that we&#39;re
    better <BR>off now in many ways. Not least of them, the <BR>opening of the standards
    of digital type that <BR>was &#34;forced&#34; on Adobe, as well as the availability
    <BR>of affordable tools, permitted the flowering of <BR>type design in a way that
    would be unthinkable <BR>in the era of the big type houses &#40;the obvious <BR>flip
    side being that most of this is not so good, <BR>but...&#41;, and the possibility
    of fine type design <BR>has been enhanced. We&#39;ve seen for instance the <BR>rebirth
    of lowercase &#40;so-called &#34;old-style&#34;&#41; <BR>figures and other things
    that for a number of <BR>reasons were rarely available in phototype. <BR> <BR>On
    the graphic design side, the possibility of <BR>experimentation with more complex
    type structures <BR>is a bonus - I remember some projects of mine <BR>that were
    nightmares of specification &#40;does <BR>anyone still do type specification?
    ;&#41;, sometimes <BR>with frustrating results. Also the costs could <BR>be much
    higher then in these cases. <BR> <BR>On the other hand &#40;and somewhat contradictorily,
    <BR>I know&#41; the fact that you had to have a layout, <BR>a project, before
    specifying type, as Mark <BR>mentioned, provided IMO for tighter, generally <BR>better
    design than we mostly see today - add <BR>this to the general debasement in the
    perception <BR>of the profession &#40;Mark&#39;s &#34;You just push a button&#34;&#41;
    <BR>and... - well, I won&#39;t enter the matter here as <BR>this post is already
    too long. ;&#41; '
  created: '2002-09-11 23:25:42'
- author:
    name: porky
    picture: 110491
  body: ' How can you possibly miss wax rollers? I burnt my dainty fingers on them
    once too often when I had to paste up galleys set using some monstrous blue Compugraphic
    machine. <BR> <BR>8inch floppies... those were the days. That was unintentionally
    rude. Oh well. '
  created: '2002-09-12 14:20:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It was downright hazardous back then. Molten wax, rubber cement thinner &#40;benzine&#41;,
    razor-sharp X-acto blades, marker fumes, spray adhesive. Not only that, but everyone
    <I>smoked!</I> Feh. Now we worry about RSI and eye-strain. Designers nowadays
    don&#39;t know the <I>meaning</I> of danger.
  created: '2002-09-12 20:56:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Designers nowadays don&#39;t know the meaning of danger. <BR> <BR>Aaah,
    danger - what a rush. <BR>As a teen in Beirut I used to design and make my own
    crossbows &#40;probably due to the combined bad influences of D&amp;D and the
    Lebanese War&#41;. One time I had to go to the Other Side &#40;East Beirut, for
    me&#41; to get the right kind of automobile suspension leaf spring &#40;which
    was basically the bow part of my crossbows&#41;, so I went to my usual crossing
    point &#40;the Mazra&#39;a, named after the gutted National Museum&#41; but when
    I got to the border none of the taxi guys would take me across because there was
    an acive sniper doing that crossing that day. I said &#34;whatever&#34; and walked
    the kilometer or so on foot, with crossbow parts sticking out of my faithfull
    blue backpack, right past the point my barber had been taken hostage the previous
    month. The best part? During the stroll I was whistling that &#34;Bye bye miss
    America pie ... This&#39;ll be the day that I die&#34; song, you know it? I guess
    when you had family dinners over live news coverage of that car bomb carnage up
    the street, you didn&#39;t care. <BR> <BR>These days, I&#39;m bored stiff. <BR>
    <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-12 21:24:33'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <I>strangely, neither quark nor that adobe program are suitable for newspaper
    production on a large scale - it comes down to thge fact that they cannot store
    many versions of the same article so that they are easy to switch, necessary for
    deadline chasing work</I> <BR> <BR>Matthew, not that I know if it addresses your
    needs, but have you looked at <A HREF="http://www.adobe.com/products/incopy/main.html"
    TARGET="_top">InCopy</A>?
  created: '2002-09-12 21:32:41'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <I>As a teen in Beirut I used to design and make my own crossbows</I> <BR>
    <BR>I once shot a man in Reno just to watch him die <BR> <BR>:-P
  created: '2002-09-12 21:44:11'
date: '2002-09-11 01:24:55'
title: Phototypesetting?
...
