---
author:
  name: iota
  picture: 110434
body: just wondering if most of you gridniks out there create grids to lay out your
  business cards? if you do maybe you can help me out. <BR> <BR>i&#39;m using the
  dimensions 90 x 54mm for the card so that the card is subdividable by 2.25mm units,
  from these subdivisions i&#39;ve created my typographic grid. <BR> <BR>my problem
  is that the baseline of the bottom line of type is not the same distance to the
  bottom edge of the card as the top line of type is from the top edge of the card.
  <BR> <BR>my question to you is, should i forgo my grid for the sake of aesthetics
  by moving the bottom line of type to sit the same distance from the bottom edge
  of the card as the type at the top sits from the top edge of the card, or should
  i stick with my grid and live with a little extra space at the bottom of the card.
  <BR> <BR>any suggestions appreciated. <BR> <BR>thanks <BR>iota.
comments:
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Not sure if I understand your problem here. <BR>Can you post an image of it?
    <BR>
  created: '2003-06-11 15:47:05'
- author:
    name: iota
    picture: 110434
  body: yeh i was in a bit of a rush, sorry if it was a bit incoherent. :S <BR> <BR>i&#39;ll
    post up an image tomorrow.
  created: '2003-06-11 15:50:10'
- author:
    name: mattuk
  body: Business cards are so small, i think that whatever aesthetically looks the
    best will out. I personally don&#39;t use grids for business cards. Most layouts
    don&#39;t have equal space top and bottom anyway. <BR> <BR>you might want to check
    the dimensions there though - and be sure it&#39;ll fit in the credit card slots
    in someones wallet etc, if thats what you want.
  created: '2003-06-20 16:20:20'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: I totally agree with Matthew. Business cards are so small and every C.I. &#40;corporate
    identity&#41; is so different that a grid is perhaps not neccesary. <BR>Just go
    with you feelings. <BR> <BR>Ren
  created: '2003-06-20 16:59:34'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: no matter what my project is, I always set up a grid to  <BR>help achieve
    harmonious proportions. setting up a  <BR>business card grid doesn&#39;t take
    a lot of time, so it&#39;s  <BR>always worth a shot. and there&#39;s no rule that
    says  <BR>head and foot margins should be indentical &#40;in fact,  <BR>there
    are many that state the opposite&#41;. <BR> <BR>the most important thing to remember
    is that a grid is a  <BR>guideline. for consistancy&#39;s sake, try to be strict
    when  <BR>there are a lot of items based on the same grid.  <BR>business cards,
    however, aren&#39;t a widely applicable  <BR>format, so following the grid exactly
    isn&#39;t going to do a  <BR>whole lot for you. raise or drop your lowest rule
    as you  <BR>see fit -- in the end it&#39;s the harmonious whole that  <BR>matters,
    not your adherence to a grid.
  created: '2003-06-20 18:43:54'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: 'Depends on the design of the business card. But basically, yeah, I work with
    grids on whatever project I do. I mostly start out without a grid to get the intuitive
    proportional feeling right and then start building a grid pattern that suits the
    design - in more complex Corporate Design cases there also is a special logic
    in the background, a kind of larger DNA of grids and patterns that connect the
    variuous media, so in such cases I work within the patternparametern I pre-established.
    Either way, it just helps organize matters and keeps the work tidy :-D. '
  created: '2003-06-20 19:27:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Thinking about grids. For something as small as a business card I don&#39;t
    consciously use grids. But I am ruler fanatic, constantly using exact measurements,
    snap to guide and point. Which in a lot of ways is like using a grid, it is just
    invisible.
  created: '2003-06-20 19:46:28'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: Hmmm.... I don&#39;t use set grids for business cards, but I tend to lay it
    out first, then establish guides. Works well for me. As designers, we have &#39;grids&#39;
    in our minds anyway ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>The top margin of my business card is <i>way</i>
    bigger than the bottom! I lined everything up at the bottom :-P <BR> <BR>Hey!
    Let&#39;s see all of your business cards!
  created: '2003-06-20 20:38:51'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62; Hey! Let&#39;s see all of your business cards! <BR> <BR>Cool idea.
    Show yours. &#40;New thread, perhaps?&#41;'
  created: '2003-06-20 20:47:57'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: OK, good idea. I&#39;ll start. Go here if you dare... <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/11987.html?1056141122"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/11987.html?1056141122</a>
    <BR> <BR>Ren
  created: '2003-06-20 21:33:04'
date: '2003-06-11 03:48:59'
title: Grids for business cards?
...
