---
author:
  name: pablohoney77
  picture: 109996
body: 'I&#39;m asking because i don&#39;t know the answer &#40;obviously&#41;, but
  does it matter which way your contours run? I have been under the impression that
  black contours should run clockwise while the white parts should run counterclockwise?
  does it really matter? i know the main thing is that the black and white contours
  run in opposite directions. anyhow part of my confusion comes from the diagram here:  <BR><a
  href="http://babelfish.altavista.com/babelfish/urltrurl?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sudtipos.com.ar%2Fsubmitions.htm&amp;lp=es_en&amp;tt=url"
  target="_blank">http://babelfish.altavista.com/babelfish/urltrurl?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sudtipos.com.ar%2Fsubmitions.htm&amp;lp=es_en&amp;tt=url</a>
  <BR>i had to give you the translated version because i think it adds humor to the
  text, and i&#39;m all for humor! anyhow, anyone know a &#34;definitive&#34; answer
  to this question?'
comments:
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Paul - <BR> <BR>I can never remember, and to an extent it doesn&#39;t matter
    until... <BR>You generate the file. <BR> <BR>Before generating &#40;in FL&#41;
    go to Transform &#62; Contour &#62; Reverse All. <BR>Then choose &#34;set counterclockwise
    &#40;Type 1&#41; direction&#34;. <BR>Or TrueType etc.  <BR>I hope this helps.
  created: '2004-02-26 13:11:06'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: To use your words. Black is counterclockwise. White is clockwise. <BR>- or
    - <BR>Outermost outline is counterclockwise. Alternate as you move in. <BR>&#40;same
    thing said differently&#41; <BR> <BR>Eric, you mean I don&#39;t have to go through
    glyph by glyph and double check? No wonder computers were invented. :-&#41; <BR>
    <BR>Randy
  created: '2004-02-26 14:16:35'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: One funny thing I&#39;ve noticed in FontLab is that if you Merge Contours
    &#40;Ctrl &#43; F10&#41;, the direction of them has to be the same. If they run
    in opposite directions, the contours don&#39;t merge, they intersect, and there&#39;s
    a lot of tedious clean-up. <BR> <BR>It took me eight months, but I finally figured
    that out ;-&#41;
  created: '2004-02-26 14:26:43'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: Okay i looked this up in the FontLab instruction manual last night and aparrently
    my thinking was correct if i were working with a TT font. But for T1 fonts the
    direction is reversed. Does anyone care to explain why this is the case?
  created: '2004-02-26 15:42:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Does anyone care to explain why this is the case? <BR> <BR>Yes, please!
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-26 18:28:06'
- author:
    name: komitlak
    picture: 109966
  body: 'It is easy to remember with rime: <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>Truetype, black on right.
    <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>If you follow the conture&#39;s direction in TT font the black
    surface is allways on your right side. <BR> <BR>It is the opposite with Postscript
    fonts. For more info see the Adobe&#39;s free online book abouth the postscript
    language. <BR> <BR> <BR>gg'
  created: '2004-02-26 20:39:58'
- author:
    name: blairyo
  body: The Fontographer method is described here; <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.macromedia.com/support/fontographer/ts/documents/pathmenu.htm"
    target="_blank">http://www.macromedia.com/support/fontographer/ts/documents/pathmenu.htm</a>
    <BR> <BR>In brief, outer paths move clockwise and the inner paths &#40;in letters
    such as A and O&#41; move in an anti-clockwise direction. A small arrow in FOG
  created: '2004-02-27 14:05:27'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: yes, but why??? why counterclockwise in Postscript and clockwise in TT???
    &#40;It&#39;s probably some reason i wouldn&#39;t understand anyway, but it&#39;d
    be nice to know&#41;
  created: '2004-02-27 15:42:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: PostScript AFAIK because they had to pick one. There may be some reason from
    previous graphics languages, I don&#39;t know. <BR> <BR>I have been told that
    TrueType did it the other way just to be different from PostScript; I don&#39;t
    know if that&#39;s actually true, though. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-02-27 16:13:18'
date: '2004-02-26 01:16:31'
title: Contour Direction - Does it matter?
...
