---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' Is it just me of is the Agfa Monotype site completely sucky on the Mac? <BR>
  <BR>Lousy interface not withstanding. '
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' No, it&#39;s not just you, Karen. The site is horrid. It&#39;s a  <BR>disservice
    to the designers whose fonts they sell. And  <BR>to think that they snagged the
    &#34;fonts.com&#34; domain for their sorry showing. &#40;Is that logo in Impact?
    Eeek.&#41; '
  created: '2001-07-08 23:59:41'
- author:
    name: flingford
    picture: 110459
  body: ' Yeah. Impact. Eeww. &#40;Impact is a free font too, available from Microsoft.
    Is it an Agfa font? Double eww&#41;. '
  created: '2001-07-09 18:57:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Yeah, the AGFA site sucks hard. But the press release says they&#39;re re-designing
    it, so let&#39;s hope they rise to the occasion. <BR> <BR>I wonder who the domain
    belonged to before, and how much they paid for it. Since dot-com-land was covered
    with dot-bombs, squatters have been selling off domains for really cheap. But
    if a company is spending good money on getting a good domain, that&#39;s a good
    sign for the font business. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2001-07-09 23:29:40'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' &#62; But if a company is spending good money on <BR>&#62; getting a good
    domain, that&#39;s a good sign for the font <BR>&#62; business. <BR> <BR>Perhaps
    - but not a big deal for a huge  <BR>conglomerate like AgfaMonotype. <BR> <BR>Stephen
    Coles '
  created: '2001-07-09 23:40:58'
date: '2001-07-06 02:04:39'
title: Agfa Monotype site
...
