---
author:
  name: kristin
  picture: 110305
body: Creativepro, a site with articles I usually like, has posted a pdf of an article
  from Before and After magazine.  <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/20870.html"
  target="_blank">http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/20870.html</a> <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
  surprised by my own reaction. I find the entire article absurd and even a bit offensive.
  I especially like how they put selecting a typeface&#34; in the same category as
  &#34;turn on your computer&#34;.  <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think the process described
  is anywhere near the kind of process logo designers use. What do you think?
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '::gasp:: <BR> <BR>That&#39;s It!!! I&#39;m going back to school to become
    a librarian! <BR> <BR>::wink::'
  created: '2004-03-03 21:24:11'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: The Before and After articles are always over simplified. I think they are
    for beginners and not to be taken seriously by seasoned designers.
  created: '2004-03-03 21:28:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#34;select an ordinary typeface&#34;... Needs an asterisk: <BR>&#34;&#42;
    Since you&#39;re just another ordinary idiot.&#34; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-03 21:42:51'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: The main trouble with it is that it fails to explain what&#39;s wrong with
    the &#34;before&#34; logo. It could have been made by following the instructions
    in the article. <BR> <BR>It is particularly telling that color is the only consistent
    element of the &#34;Before &amp; After&#34; masthead, of which I&#39;ve seen <b>three
    different</b> banal type treatments just navigating to the article.
  created: '2004-03-03 22:59:27'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '<i>&#34;select an ordinary typeface&#34;</i> <BR> <BR>Before&amp;After has
    always been clearly aimed at novices and amateurs and tends to speak in laymen&#39;s
    terms. By saying &#34;an ordinary typeface&#34; I imagine they are steering people
    away from &#34;fancy&#34; typefaces like Comic Sans or Zapf Chancery, the kind
    of faces novices tend to gravitate toward. <BR> <BR>And Kevin, I hope you&#39;re
    not saying you prefer the &#34;before&#34; logo. '
  created: '2004-03-03 23:25:54'
- body: The article was wrong at &#34;Turn on your computer.&#34;
  created: '2004-03-04 02:53:33'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: 'LOL Brian! Now you&#39;re talking. <BR> <BR>I did understand that the article
    was written for the complete novice. I don&#39;t think it&#39;s necessary to be
    so inane about it.  <BR> <BR>The attitude was &#34;this is how it&#39;s done&#34;
    when it should have been &#34;try this exercise that treats group of letters as
    art&#34;. They missed step 2 entirely: moving from exercises to creativity.'
  created: '2004-03-04 03:25:56'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'Mark: Indeed not, it looks awful, but the article completely fails to address
    the reasons why. You could follow the instructions and still come up with the
    bad logo. <BR> <BR>Pick a typeface. - Aachen is the first one on the list. <BR>Do
    random stuff with it. - &#34;Loosely spaced type feels panoramic, like the powerful,
    horizon-spanning vistas of the movies.&#34; <BR>Choose a &#34;space&#34; to put
    it in. - Yep, there it is, a rectangle with round corners. <BR>Choose where in
    the space it goes. - &#34;Modern, buoyant, light; type at or near the top suggests
    growth.&#34; <BR>Align the subhead with something. - Yay, we&#39;re done! <BR>
    <BR>Sometimes, writing for the novice can mean failing to teach the novice anything.'
  created: '2004-03-04 06:48:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I wonder if there are plumbers out there on plumber forums laughing at articles
    in This Old House that oversimplify DIY toilet installations.
  created: '2004-03-04 15:23:16'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Kevin, I kinda thought &#40;or hoped!&#41; that was what you meant. <BR>
    <BR>This reminds me of the old Python bit where they show you how to do all kinds
    of things. It went something like: <BR> <BR>Host: &#34;Michael from Kensington
    wants to know how to play the flute.&#34; <BR>Guest: &#34;Well, Michael, you just
    blow into this little hole, move your fingers up and down on these little levers,
    and music the comes out here.&#34; <BR> <BR>They then go on to explain how to
    end world hunger and war in a few short sentences.'
  created: '2004-03-04 16:50:10'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Vertical type. Who knew? Turns out I don&#39;t have to dye my hair pink or
    get a tattoo to be considered radical and rebellious. :-&#41;
  created: '2004-03-05 14:08:12'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Revisited... <BR> <BR>Vertical type. Who knew? Turns out I didn&#39;t have
    to tear off that mattress pad tag...  <BR> <BR>Funnier, huh? Other suggestions?
  created: '2004-03-05 15:44:04'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: I have to step in to defend Before &amp; After.  <BR> <BR>Yes, it&#39;s aimed
    at beginners and generalists &#40;like the marketing person who has to write and
    lay out the company newsletter, and then update the company web site&#41;. But
    the basic principles it teaches, like the value of contrast, finding points of
    alignment, etc., are sound.  <BR> <BR>&#40;You need only look at some of the logo
    work in Typophile&#39;s critique forums to find designers who ought to revisit
    the basics.&#41; <BR> <BR>The printed version of B&amp;A is scrupulous about identifying
    the typefaces used in its examples, lauding their beauty, and generally encouraging
    sensitivity to type. This is a good thing, in my view. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-06 16:46:03'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: ''
  created: '2004-03-06 22:10:10'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Marc,  <BR> <BR>What offends me most about this article is that it purports
    to be all you need to design a good logo. A good beginning article should make
    clear that it is just that, a place to begin. The article fails to cover considerations
    about reproduction methods, legibility at small and large sizes and fonts in historic
    context, or indeed let you know that there are any other considerations. A good
    beginning article might also include a list of logo design books and encourage
    further study. <BR> <BR>My attempt at humor was based on the vertical type example
    being labeled &#34;Radical - makes you work to read it; decorative, rebellious.&#34;
    Sorry, but the word I think of when I see vertical Helvetica is dated. &#40;Sombody
    please let me know when it becomes retro. OK?&#41; <BR> <BR>And, it may be reality,
    but do we really think it is a good idea for the marketing person to be designing
    the company newsletter or updating the Web site? He was talking about fonts, but
    I agree with Yves in this <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/83/27493.html?1078437075"
    target="_blank"> post</a> that you get what you pay for. If you want a quality
    logo, you must be prepared to pay for it. By failing to mention graphic design
    professionals this article places no value on the years of study and work experience
    that go into becoming a knowledgeable logo designer.
  created: '2004-03-07 01:14:23'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: ''
  created: '2004-03-07 01:26:55'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: '&#34;A good beginning article should make clear that it is just that, a place
    to begin.&#34; <BR> <BR>Wow, Alyce. Thank you. What I meant to say but you said
    it better and with fewer words. <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-07 04:26:49'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Thank you. :-&#41;
  created: '2004-03-07 04:33:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '&#34;Probably not, because there are, supposedly, only a few ways install
    a toilet properly - the thing can only work so many ways&#34; <BR> <BR>You&#39;ve
    obviously never hung around a contractor forum, eh? ;o&#41; <BR> <BR>Typography,
    after all, it really just another trade. Full of craftsmanship, history, tools,
    best practices and a lots of arguing of subjective opinion. ;o&#41; <BR> <BR>&#34;And,
    it may be reality, but do we really think it is a good idea for the marketing
    person to be designing the company newsletter or updating the Web site?&#34; <BR>
    <BR>Of course not. But what we think isn&#39;t usually reality. So, more power
    to any marketing person that is at least reading a bit to improve upon the skills
    that they may or may not have for the position they were perhaps &#39;given&#39;
    not by their choice.'
  created: '2004-03-08 19:57:41'
date: '2004-03-03 21:05:37'
title: Discover the logo in your name?
...
