---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: '<A HREF="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/2739.html" TARGET="_top">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/2739.html</A>
  <BR> <BR>First of all, I didn&#39;t really invent the term &#34;bouma&#34;: it&#39;s
  adapted from the term &#34;Bouma-shape&#34; used by Saenger in his &#34;Space between
  words&#34;; he in turn claims to have taken it from the work of Taylor &amp; Taylor
  &#40;although I myself have yet to find any such term used by them&#41;, and is
  based on the Dutch psychologist Herman Bouma who formalized empirical research into
  word-shape-based reading. Professor Bouma himself had never heard of the term &#40;a
  friend of mine asked him&#41;. The only things I can take credit for is making it
  convenient &#40;a single lc word&#41;, and spreading it. BTW, there are a number
  of reasons I like &#34;bouma&#34;: I think it&#39;s euphonic, hence memorable; it
  doesn&#39;t sound like a German lobotomy clinic; and we need a fresh start. <BR>
  <BR>&#40;BTW, I definitely didn&#39;t invent &#34;bicameral&#34;. I think I got
  it from some online discussion years ago. Maybe it&#39;s not good, but at least
  it doesn&#39;t sound provincial like &#34;two-storied&#34;...&#41; <BR> <BR>As for
  being ahead of its time, I think maybe it&#39;s just the opposite: the way in which
  the bouma concept can be most useful is in countering what I  call the Familiarity
  Escape Clause, which has risen to prominence in the last 15 years, and which so
  many designers use to avoid &#42;thinking&#42;. It promotes the consideration of
  the &#34;subvisible&#34; issues in typography, which laymen cannot appreciate through
  conscious observation, but are significantly affected by nonetheless. <BR> <BR>It
  can also be useful in two very tangible ways: <BR>1. Refining conventional type
  design, specifically by making x-heights smaller, spacing tighter, etc. <BR>2. Motivating
  alphabet reform, or at least some formal thinking about the alphabet, like in moving
  away from the cloying world of calligraphic type. <BR> <BR>The first one is not
  at all &#34;revolutionary&#34;, and the second one might be more &#34;evolutionary&#34;:
  we should realize that we need to design words &#40;or more accurately letter-strings&#41;
  primarily, and individual letters only secondarily. Anyway, thanks Martin, and keep
  your eyes open for an upcoming article in tipoGraphica magazine &#40;and its eventual
  online version in English&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp'
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: ' Hrant -- <BR> <BR>Thanks for the clarification on the origins of &#34;bouma.&#34;
    I didn&#39;t realize that &#34;Bouma-shape&#34; had been previously published.
    I don&#39;t necessarily think &#34;bouma&#34; and your use of it is bad. I just
    think it&#39;s useful to keep in mind that the term is newly coined and its use
    is strongly associated with you and your theories. <BR> <BR>As for &#34;bicameral,&#34;
    I didn&#39;t mean to imply that you invented it; but the use of the word to describe
    the two-story form of &#39;g&#39; is, I believe, unique to you. Is it possible
    that you misappropriated it from Bringhurst? He uses &#34;bicameral&#34; to describe
    the dual-case nature of the Latin alphabet. &#34;Bicameral&#34; means &#34;having
    two chambers&#34; and is used primarily to refer to governments comprised of two
    legislative chambers and it carries an implication of hierarchy -- think House
    of Lords and House of Commons. Thus Bringhurst uses it to describe an alphabet
    like Latin &#40;with its majuscule and miniscule -- its upper and lower cases&#41;
    or Greek or Cyrillic -- as opposed to Devanagari or Hangul, for instance, which
    have no capitals. <BR> <BR>-- K. '
  created: '2002-09-26 13:29:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; strongly associated with you and your theories. <BR> <BR>My theories
    concerning readablity are only really mine to a small extent: they&#39;re mostly
    &#34;codifications&#34; -or at most direct interpretations- of generally accepted
    views in psychology. However, the way I apply them &#40;like in Alphabet Reform&#41;
    are decidedly mine - although those are still &#34;public domain&#34;. <BR> <BR>I
    think &#34;my&#34; theories seem idiosyncratic largely  because Theory in general
    &#40;at least in the realm of type design functionality&#41; has been completely
    shunned during the past couple of decades. I &#42;wish&#42; people would challenge
    my views with more than the classic &#34;nothing matters&#34; relativist fallback...
    <BR> <BR>Example: <BR>A lc &#34;a&#34; without a strong terminal &#40;on top&#41;
    contributes more to readability than one with. Discuss. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-28 01:13:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; the use of &#91;&#34;bicameral&#34;&#93; to describe the two-story
    form of &#39;g&#39; is, I believe, unique to you. <BR> <BR>I swear, I got it from
    some online discussion a while back. <BR> <BR>&#62; &#91;Bringhurst&#93; uses
    &#34;bicameral&#34; to describe the dual-case nature of the Latin alphabet. <BR>
    <BR>Yes, I know. It seems clunky to me. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-28 22:23:03'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'I didn&#39;t mean that your theories are necessarily yours exclusively or
    entirely or originally. But you must admit that you have refined the ideas and
    applied them in your own ways, and you are the most visible and vocal exponent
    of them, so things like &#34;bouma&#34; are closely associated with you. That&#39;s
    all. <BR> <BR><I>&#62;I swear, I got it from some online discussion a while back.</I>
    <BR>Hmmm. Okay, I believe you. But I&#39;ll bet it was originally a misappropriation
    of Bringhurst. <BR> <BR><I>&#62;Yes, I know. It seems clunky to me.</I> <BR>It
    seems clunky to me, too, but at least it makes more sense. If you want latinate
    jargon, then an alternative description for the two-storied form of &#39;g&#39;
    is &#34;binocular,&#34; since a counter is sometimes referred to as an eye. It
    has the disadvantage of other familiar associations, but it does conjure up Eric
    Gill&#39;s &#34;spectacles&#34; characterization. &#91;cf. <I>An Essay on Typography</I>&#93;
    <BR> <BR><I>&#62;A lc &#34;a&#34; without a strong terminal &#40;on top&#41; contributes
    more to readability than one with. Discuss.</I> <BR>You know that I&#39;m more
    than happy to debate you on such matters &#40;as we have on various occasions&#41;
    when I have the time. But, it would be easier to have a useful discussion with
    you if you would provide more substance than just a broad, blanket statement like
    this. Please elaborate: Why/how? Define &#34;strong terminal.&#34; Can you cite
    an example for us to examine where the lack of terminal improves legibility?  <BR>
    <BR>Then we have something to discuss. Otherwise, the discussion tends to quickly
    deteriorate into &#34;No it doesn&#39;t&#34; &#34;Yes, it does&#34; &#34;So&#39;s
    your mother&#34; &#34;Nyaah&#34;. <BR> <BR>-- K.'
  created: '2002-09-29 15:02:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; &#34;binocular&#34; <BR> <BR>Love it. I&#39;ve now switched. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Please elaborate <BR> <BR>With pleasure. <BR>Basically, the essence of the &#34;a&#34;
    &#40;what it contributes to readability&#41; is in it&#39;s bottom bowl; a strong
    top makes it more of a nondescript blob, especially in blurry parafoveal vision
    &#40;which makes up about 2/3rds of reading&#41;. An &#34;a&#34; with a weak top
    contributes some great divergence into boumas. What&#39;s a good finial for a
    &#40;highly-readability&#41; lc &#34;a&#34;? Anything with no flare, certainly
    no big lump at the end. <BR> <BR>The lc &#34;a&#34; in Petr van Blokland&#39;s
    Proforma, your Whitman, and my Patria are good. The lc &#34;a&#34; in the Text
    cut of Smeijers&#39;s Arnhem&#42; is bad &#40;especially since the Display cut
    has a nice -if somewhat too old-school French- one with no terminal&#41;. But
    when I say &#34;good&#34;/&#34;bad&#34; here, I&#39;m talking about &#34;raw&#34;
    functionality, and only for text work. There might still be an over-riding aesthetic
    reason to put a blub on the terminal - as long as you know the damage that&#39;s
    doing to reading. Example: in Patria the lc &#34;a&#34; has a fine terminal, but
    overall it&#39;s too wide; it would be more readable narrower. So why did I make
    it &#40;as well as the lc &#34;e&#34;, &#34;g&#34; and &#34;s&#34;&#41; too wide?
    Because it plays better with the character of the face. <BR> <BR>&#42; <A HREF="http://www.new-series.org/?arnhem"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.new-series.org/?arnhem</A> <BR> <BR>BTW, a few weeks
    ago I started preparing a short expose about how we read, parafoveal vision, boumas,
    etc. and will publish it on my site as soon as it&#39;s ready; it has some interesting
    pitchurz. <BR> <BR>&#62; Otherwise, the discussion tends to quickly deteriorate
    into .... <BR> <BR>Yes, that&#39;s the worst. <BR>On the other hand, in &#42;starting&#42;
    a discussion I&#39;ve found that when I elaborate too soon and in too much detail,
    it tends to stifle further contribution from others. So a seemingly dogmatic intitial
    statement actually has its usefulness!  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-09-29 23:17:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Well, yes, I suppose those outrageous, dogmatic statements have sparked some
    spirited debates, but they always seem to start off polarized. <BR> <BR>How can
    I argue with your &#39;a&#39; declaration when you start right off praising my
    own design? ;-&#41; But I will say this: I think it depends upon how you want
    to define &#34;strong terminal.&#34;  <BR> <BR>I agree that some faces with very
    strong ball terminals -- many of the modern genre -- tend to be too dark in text
    sizes, and I can see your point about becoming nondescript at parafoveal distances.
    <BR> <BR>But I think that your declaration terminal=bad / no terminal=good is
    an over-simplification. I don&#39;t think that the terminals on Jenson-inspired
    faces, for instance, detract from the divergence of the &#39;a&#39;. I find most
    of the traditional book faces &#40;the Aldines and Garaldes&#41; completely acceptable
    in terms of divergence. I think it comes down to a balance of the weight and style
    of the terminal in relation to the weight and size and shape of the bowl. I don&#39;t
    think it&#39;s so much a matter of the terminal <I>per se</I> as it is a matter
    of the curvature and closure of the upper counterspace. <BR> <BR>I think the no-terminal
    &#39;a&#39; runs other risks, mostly the vulnerability to creating distracting
    gaps when paired with certain letters, like &#39;c k r s.&#39; When designing
    a no-terminal &#39;a&#39; for a text face, one has to pay special attention to
    the curvature and where the stroke does end. <BR> <BR>Let me ask you this: I seem
    to remember that one of the points to your alphabet reform analysis was that the
    traditional &#39;a&#39; and &#39;e&#39; are too similar in rotation. Doesn&#39;t
    the elimination of the top terminal of the &#39;a&#39; deprive the shape of one
    of its important divergent characteristics? <BR> <BR>-- K.'
  created: '2002-09-30 13:57:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I think it comes down to a balance of the <BR>&#62; weight and style
    of the terminal in relation <BR>&#62; to the weight and size and shape of the
    bowl. <BR> <BR>OK, or more generally the relation of the terminal to the overall
    color of the face. But if you agree that a text face has to fall within a narrow
    range of color &#40;or more accurately, a narrow range of balance between positive
    and negative space&#41;, then  maybe any strong terminal &#42;is&#42; just bad
    after all. <BR> <BR>Sure, &#34;strong terminal&#34; is relative, but basically
    I see the two requirements as: <BR>1. Primarily: the shape should contribute divergence
    to boumas - like the lc &#34;a&#34; should contribute a hole towards the top of
    the x-region. <BR>2. Secondarily: the shape should be pleasing during conscious
    evaluation, especially in the context of the entire glyph set - and I for one
    think the &#34;weak-top&#34; lc &#34;a&#34; can work beautifully in a font - look
    at Proforma. <BR> <BR>&#62; When designing a no-terminal &#39;a&#39; for a text
    <BR>&#62; face, one has to pay special attention to <BR>&#62; the curvature and
    where the stroke does end.  <BR> <BR>OK, sure. Just like a lc &#34;r&#34; is harder
    to space/kern than an &#34;n&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#62; I seem to remember that one
    of the points <BR>&#62; to your alphabet reform analysis was that <BR>&#62; the
    traditional &#39;a&#39; and &#39;e&#39; are too similar <BR>&#62; in rotation.
    Doesn&#39;t the elimination of the <BR>&#62; top terminal of the &#39;a&#39; deprive
    the shape of <BR>&#62; one of its important divergent characteristics? <BR> <BR>&#34;Hey,
    you&#39;re paying attention, doofus!&#34;  -Butthead <BR>Wow, you&#39;re sharp.  :-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>In the beginning of my &#34;research&#34; I put too much emphasis on
    letterwise conflict: it&#39;s instictive &#40;since generally we can only appreciate
    individual shapes in consciousness&#41;, plus I was influenced by the bulk of
    legibility research which limits itself to the decipherment of individual glyphs.
    There &#42;is&#42; a relevance to the rotation deal, but it&#39;s nothing compared
    to what the glyphs -in their normal positions- contribute to boumas. For example,
    if the &#34;a&#34; in a font is made my taking an &#34;e&#34;, rotating it 180
    and adding a tail to its bottom-right, you will occasionally cause a &#34;fault&#34;
    in reading &#40;basically when you&#39;re looking at a long and/or unfamiliar
    word in foveal vision&#41;. But since the &#34;a&#34; and &#34;e&#34; obviously
    only appear in their normal positions &#40;in normal text&#41;, it&#39;s much
    more important to mind what they contribute to boumas. So in fact the funky &#34;a&#34;
    I describe above might actually be more &#42;readable&#42; than the conventional
    &#34;bulbed&#34; lc &#34;a&#34;! <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-30 16:23:56'
date: '2002-09-25 22:52:51'
title: Bouma
...
