---
author:
  name: franklin_new
body: 'I am a graphic designer that has interest in designing a typeface, however
  I felt I should learn  how to draw a typeface before going onto the computer.  I
  have found drawing to be initially difficult..recently I have found that if i draw
  with a heavy hand, the contours are easier to control.  Are there any suggestions
  on how to draw a typeface? any techiniques?  '
comments:
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: Frank can you take a Calligraphy class where you live? It can really open
    your eyes to how many letter forms were created.
  created: '2004-03-05 12:27:11'
- author:
    name: franklin_new
  body: Calligraphy class? I&#39;ll look into it, thanks for the suggestion Daniel...however
    in the meantime I am still interested in any outline drawing techniques..before
    the computer, commercial artists had to hand draw&amp;paint letter forms...how
    did they do so with such accuracy?
  created: '2004-03-11 00:44:39'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: 'Frank -- there are dozens of lettering books that <BR>show you the ins and
    outs of drawing <BR>and painting letters. <BR> <BR>go to <BR><a href="http://www.bookfinder.com/"
    target="_blank">http://www.bookfinder.com/</a> <BR>or another book search engine
    <BR>and type in Lettering <BR> <BR>here is a nice list, too. <BR><a href="http://www.letterhead.com/bookshop/amazon/lettering1.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.letterhead.com/bookshop/amazon/lettering1.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>Two that I recently got on the cheap &#40;~$4 each&#41; and <BR>would
    recommend: <BR> <BR>Lettering for Reproduction by David Gates <BR>The Art of Hand
    Lettering by Helm Wotzkow <BR> <BR> <BR>bj <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-11 01:04:18'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: 'Frank <BR> <BR>There are various methods of rendering finshed lettering.
    <BR>Calligraphy is of course written spontaneously in a controlled manner, and
    the more innate talent and  control a person has, the more beautiful the effect.
    <BR> <BR>Lettering for things like type and logos etc. are done with the use of
    drafting tools, although some very talented people can completely freehand the
    work with  pen and brush. Frederic Goudy notes in his writings that his work was
    all lettered freehand; even in his sparing use of straight lines. And keep in
    mind, that white paint is also  for the little glitches. <BR> <BR>Since almost
    everything I do now is drawn for digital fonts, I need do only a pencil outline
    for hand digitizing. <BR> <BR>When I did all of my work on board, my method was
    to draw as perfect as possible a pencil drawing of the work, and then I inked
    it in with India. <BR> <BR>I have always needed to use drafting tools to get good
    work. For this I have a wide selection of plastic circle and oval templates from
    small to very large. Along with that I have a very old set of twenty or so gentle
    curves. I am told these are tailor&#39;s curves, and my set is made of about 1/16&#34;
    hardwood. I recall that I found them in their handsome wood box in &#34;Tiger
    Ted&#39;s Junk Store&#34; in  a little town near my home. I have found these curves
    to be very useful in the rendering of long, slight curves, like the flair of stems
    in letters. This type of tool is still available in aluminum. I do have two or
    three sizes of French curve tools, but use them rarely. Small curves like serif
    brackets I have always freehanded. <BR> <BR>This is just a bit of personal info
    from one who has done it for more than 40 years. But you are wise to get hold
    of all the books you can on the subject, and to get the advice of others who have
    done inked work. <BR> <BR>I agree that a calligraphy course is of great value
    to a type designer, even if you do not intend to do strictly calligraphic work.
    The practice of writing forms is a fine way of getting your head around how letters
    come about. <BR> <BR>The tools I use are: technical pens, croquill pen, Winsor
    Newton Series 6 brushes &#40;expensive, and are damaged by India ink, but you
    need to have good brushes&#41; good quality India Ink, Opaque white designer&#39;s
    colour white or good white-out paint. <BR> <BR>Some prefer a perfectly smooth
    hot press board for a super clean line. I have always preferred a very slightly
    toothed board, because it gives me a little more control, and I like the feel
    of it.  <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer  <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-12 17:27:02'
- author:
    name: addison
  body: Mr. Rimmer, <BR> <BR>What software and/or process do you use to digitize your
    pencil outlines? I&#39;ve been interested in making better use of my drawings
    instead of beginning on the computer. <BR> <BR>Thanks, <BR>Addison
  created: '2004-03-12 19:28:11'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: Addison <BR> <BR>I use IKARUS from URW. The system consists of a tablet, and
    a hand-piece, with which you hand digitize your outlines.  <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t
    know how widespread is the popularity or use of this program, but I am hearing
    that other systems are much more in favour. <BR> <BR>Whatever program you intend
    to use, I believe that you can start at the drawing board rather than the computer
    and then scan and/or paste in your outlines. <BR> <BR>I am ignorant of the workings
    of other than IK, and have only a passing knowledge of Fontographer, and none
    at all of the other ones available. <BR> <BR>I would seek more info before you
    commit. <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer
  created: '2004-03-12 19:47:58'
- author:
    name: addison
  body: Thanks, Mr. Rimmer.
  created: '2004-03-12 19:55:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I must put in a recommendation for &#34;Creative Lettering Today.&#34; Michael
    Harvey&#39;s book addresses lettering by hand, carved lettering, and digital type
    design. <BR> <BR>For digitizing your letters, I would recommend the ScanFont &#43;
    FontLab combination. It&#39;s not cheap, however. For a lesser investment, TypeTool
    is a good choice. Of course, given the hundreds of hours you have to put in to
    make a decent typeface, the cost of tools may seem less extreme. <BR> <BR>Regards,
    <BR> <BR>T <BR>
  created: '2004-03-12 20:33:13'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: Addison <BR> <BR>Your are welcome. <BR> <BR>Name&#39;s Jim.
  created: '2004-03-12 21:33:11'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR>How good is scanfont&#39;s autotrace? Does it attempt to
    put nodes in optimum locations, or does it fit the curve no matter what the beziers
    look like. &#40;I looked at the videos on fontlab&#39;s site, but didn&#39;t see
    much about autotrace&#41;. <BR> <BR>Thanks, <BR>Randy
  created: '2004-03-13 02:51:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: You can control quite a few variables of the ScanFont autotrace parameters,
    so you can make those decisions yourself to some degree. <BR> <BR>Whether or not
    you even use the autotracing, the main thing I always liked about it is that it
    has great features for taking in all the scans, slicing and dicing them and populating
    them in the glyph backgrounds for FontLab. <BR> <BR>I have not used the latest
    version of ScanFont, so I am not completely up to date. I haven&#39;t really needed
    it in a long time, so I don&#39;t have an excuse to buy it &#40;or get Adobe to
    buy it for me&#41;. For previous versions, I found the autotracing a little frustrating
    for high-res scans, but I expect a lot depends on the quality of the original
    sketch or sample. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-03-13 08:07:24'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: The latest version of ScanFont&#39;s autotrace is quite sophisticated. But
    the real advantage to using ScanFont is its ability to place eps outlines directly
    into the proper glyph cells in FontLab in one operation. <BR> <BR>No more cutting
    and pasting between Illustrator and font editor.
  created: '2004-03-13 14:51:17'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: '&#34;outline drawing techniques&#34;, while at college,  we were expected
    to hand render type and found the best way to to it was rather than draw an outline,
    to start with  the interior and work outwards '
  created: '2004-03-16 14:01:05'
- author:
    name: plubird
  body: 'Frank <BR> <BR>drawing and writing; was it sayed that this will be important?
    &#42;g&#42; <BR> <BR>A key for me into Typedesign was also the history. <BR>I&#39;m
    not drawing many of my types. Almost a  few letter exist on Paper. Im working
    directly on the computer. I prefer FontLab for this. So learn to handle the BezierCurves.
    Maybe this is a option for you. <BR> <BR>Scanning and autotracing: YOu have tho
    clean many. If you have a grafic table than you can put your drawings on it setting
    the points with the pen. The scetch tool of FontLab could help you by this. <BR>
    <BR>Greetings Jens'
  created: '2004-03-18 09:38:51'
date: '2004-03-05 03:54:49'
title: Drawing Typefaces
...
