---
author:
  name: dbriens
body: I was using Font Reserve in OS 9. Does anyone have any opinions which is better
  in OSX?
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: MasterJuggler!
  created: '2004-03-10 21:20:26'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: FontAgent Pro!
  created: '2004-03-10 21:53:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: You are the first MJ man I&#39;ve heard from, James. I guess you don&#39;t
    <BR>mind that it lacks auto-activation? I guess that&#39;s a dumb question. <BR>
    <BR><a href="http://typographi.ca/000767.php" target="_blank">Here is why I use
    FontAgent Pro.</a>
  created: '2004-03-11 00:26:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Tried FontReserve. <BR>Tried FontAgent Pro. <BR>Tried FontReserve, again.
    <BR>Tried FontAgent Pro, again. <BR> <BR>Installed Suitcase. <BR> <BR>But, being
    a bit of a control freak I do not allow it to auto-activate the fonts for me.
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-11 00:58:55'
- author:
    name: dbriens
  body: So, yeah i&#39;d be interested in checking out Font Agent Pro,  <BR>Yet i&#39;d
    like to read through their manual before i install.  <BR> <BR>I went to their
    site and couldn&#39;t find a manual to download.  <BR>Does someone have a PDF
    they could post.
  created: '2004-03-11 01:11:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I&#39;ll add that I found FAP and FR to be slow, and I&#39;ll admit that
    Suitcase had some granny moments too. But, when they updated it for Panther it
    snapped out of it. IMO The one thing that might slow it down is too many fonts,
    but I think that is true for any font management app. '
  created: '2004-03-11 01:21:52'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Stephen, <BR> <BR>I use to be a FontAgent pro kinda guy, until it stopped
    activating the  roman style of a font suitcase, also all of this copying and moving
    started to piss me off. MasterJuggler works in much the same way as ATM Deluxe,
    only it is Unicode savvy. <BR> <BR>You can activate fonts from anywhere, it does
    not copy fonts. After activation, you can QUIT the program, so it does not need
    to be constantly running in the background. Yes it does not have auto-activation,
    but I&#39;ve never really needed it. When I did a lot of graphic design, I had
    very carefully organized font folders. Now that most of my time is in font development,
    I&#39;m happy to have a very simple &#34;Temporary&#34; activation tool. <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;ve sent e-mails to Alsoft to suggest that they make MJ available for
    a trial download, but they seem not to be interested. They say Auto-activation
    is coming in the next release. <BR> <BR>I still love the fact that they had me
    in their database at a different address with a different phone number from 10
    years ago, and still gave me the upgrade price when I ordered over the phone.
    <BR> <BR>You can&#39;t go wrong with that.
  created: '2004-03-11 03:42:30'
- author:
    name: colinbennett
    picture: 109955
  body: FontAgent Pro 2.0 all the way here on Mac OS X Panther. <BR> <BR>The whole
    copying the fonts to a universal FontAgent Pro database doesn&#39;t bother me
    because it leaves my originals untouched. I&#39;m not quite sure what it&#39;s
    doing when it checks/optimises the fonts but it seems fine. They also need to
    badly address their manual for version 2.0 as it references version 1.0 in the
    screenshots which seems very unprofessional. <BR> <BR>I have to admit that I also
    have Font Doctor 6.0 just to double check my fonts before I send them to Font
    Agent Pro. Some Mac OS X applications, especially Illustrator CS seem to be ultra
    sensitive to bad fonts and quit and crash while they&#39;re active. For some very
    strange reason it&#39;s extra important to ensure you have a font library that&#39;s
    in good condition. One missing outline or something along those lines can cause
    havok!
  created: '2004-03-11 11:47:18'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: Font Reserve and Suitcase are now the same company and I would guess the best
    features from both products will be rolled into the next version of Suitcase.
  created: '2004-03-11 12:43:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: James - FAP 2 doesn&#39;t need to be running, even for auto- <BR>activation.
    I asked Alsoft about the demo too, but no reply. I  <BR>think they are shooting
    themselves in the foot. They will never  <BR>be a mainstream name like Suitcase
    if they don&#39;t wise up. Nice  <BR>to hear it runs well for you and they are
    adding the auto-. I like  <BR>the thought of more than 2 competitors. <BR> <BR>Daniel
    - Agree.
  created: '2004-03-11 16:46:53'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: '&#34;also all of this copying and moving started to piss me off. &#34; <BR>
    <BR>James, <BR>What is that? You are serious? Move the fonts to activate them?
    Not an funny option for type designers; :-&#40; <BR> <BR>Stephen? Could you confirm
    that &#34;feature&#34;? <BR> <BR>I was very close to bought FAP 2 the other day...
    I begin to wonder if its not my chance that their e-commerce was done at the time...
    <BR> <BR>Still with FR who run ok but bit not easy interface. <BR> <BR>jfp &#40;who
    never want to going back to Suitcases, after so bad years with it more that 10
    years ago&#41;'
  created: '2004-03-11 17:18:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: FAP gives you the option to move <i>or</i> copy fonts to import  <BR>them
    into it&#39;s library. Naturally, I opt to copy. It&#39;s no biggie. <BR>Once
    they are imported you simply push a button to activate <BR>them, just like in
    ATM Deluxe or Suitcase. <BR> <BR>BTW JFP, even though I am not a Suitcase fan,
    be careful about <BR>judging software based on experiences from years back. <BR>Remember
    how bad InDesign 1.0 was? Now it kicks all fanny.
  created: '2004-03-11 18:10:52'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: I
  created: '2004-03-12 05:27:19'
- author:
    name: iota
    picture: 110434
  body: suitcase hands down. <BR> <BR>on a side note font book is a joke.
  created: '2004-03-12 05:35:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Bill --&#62; I was fearful of allowing Suitcase to manage my system fonts
    at first, but decided I didn&#39;t want all of those fonts active at all times.
    I backed them up in tidy little &#40;named with location&#41; folders first, and
    then let Suitcase manage my system fonts, all of them, and haven&#39;t worried
    since. '
  created: '2004-03-12 17:31:07'
date: '2004-03-10 20:33:54'
title: Suitcase Vs Font Reserve - in Panther
...
