---
author:
  name: piccic
  picture: 110375
body: I&#39;d like to know if we &#40;already?&#41; have a sort of standard, when
  designing an Opentype script &#40;or not&#41; typeface, for alternate characters,
  and for opening and closing version of glyphs. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve opened my copy
  of Akira Kobayashi&#39;s Calcite from Adobe and I&#39;ve seen normal alternates
  are named along the line of a.alt, b.alt2, etc. and ligatures are &#40;as explained
  in FontLab&#39;s manual&#41; indicated with f_f_l, s_t, etc. but I&#39;ve not found
  out if a naming standard exists for opening versions, swashes, closing versions,
  different alternates, etc. <BR> <BR>Besides, I&#39;ve seen Calcite&#39;s alternates
  and ligatures seem to have an Unicode value. Which criteria has been used to assign,
  it since these letters are not basic letters of a certain language/script? <BR>
  <BR>Many thanks in advance to anyone.
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Claudio,  <BR> <BR>Calcite&#39;s alternates have Unicode mappings from the
    Private Use Area. As the name suggests, there are no criteria since the mappings
    are private. You are free to assign the Unicodes E000-F8FF according to your own
    preferences, or not at all.  <BR> <BR>As for the glyph name suffixes, I recommend
    using the &#34;most appropriate&#34; OpenType Layout feature name. For example,
    a smallcap &#34;a&#34; could be named &#34;a.smcp&#34;, a initial form &#34;a.init&#34;,
    a final form &#34;a.fina&#34; and a swash form &#34;a.swsh&#34;. If there are
    more swash forms, they could be called &#34;a.swsh1&#34;, &#34;a.swsh2&#34; etc.  <BR>
    <BR>Of course, if the swash forms are at the same time parts of some styllistic
    sets, you could call them &#34;a.ss01&#34;, &#34;a.ss02&#34; etc.  <BR> <BR>If
    the same glyph is used in more than one feature, I&#39;d subjectively pick the
    &#34;most appropriate&#34; or &#34;most logical&#34; one.  <BR> <BR>Regards,  <BR>  Adam
    Twardoch <BR>  Fontlab Ltd. / MyFonts.com  <BR>
  created: '2004-03-10 22:30:53'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: '&#62; You are free to assign the Unicodes E000-F8FF according to your own
    preferences, or not at all.  <BR> <BR>If not included, are there any programs
    that will not <BR>recognize the characters without assigned #&#39;s? <BR>I&#39;ve
    been including them out of fear.'
  created: '2004-03-10 23:47:39'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Applications that support OpenType Layout features that are used to access
    these glyphs will naturally be able to access these glyphs via these features.  <BR>
    <BR>Private Use Area mappings are devised for applications that support Unicode
    but do not support any OpenType Layout features or the particular features that
    you used in your font. In such case &#40;e.g. Microsoft Word&#41;, the user can
    use an &#34;Insert Symbol&#34; feature that will bring up a Character Map-alike
    window, and there, insert the character. Of course, the text stored behind the
    character inserted that way will be &#34;garbled&#34;. Meaning: if the user inserts
    an &#34;a.init&#34; or &#34;a.smcp&#34; using the PUA mapping, the spellchecker,
    the hyphenation algorithm or the search/replace feature will not recognize it
    as a proper &#34;a&#34; &#40;while this would be the case if the character is
    inserted via the OpenType Layout features&#41;. So this really is the last resort
    option. OpenType Layout features are better than PUA mappings, but since there
    are still applications that don&#39;t support OTL, PUA may be the only option
    to allow the users inserting these characters.  <BR> <BR>I know that John Hudson
    advises against PUA, I personally do the same, I also think that Microsoft has
    the same position. Adobe officially advises against the practice, but have been
    assigning PUA in their own fonts. My guess is, however, that they will stop doing
    so at some point.  <BR> <BR>Regards,  <BR>Adam Twardoch <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-11 00:53:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Adobe&#39;s current position seems to be &#39;we know all the problems with
    PUA characters, but we don&#39;t want to deal with the complaints from users who
    can&#39;t access ligatures and smallcaps in their non-OT applications&#39;. So
    they continue to include the PUA encodings in their fonts. Personally, I don&#39;t
    think this is doing the users any favours in the long term.
  created: '2004-03-11 14:09:43'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: 'First let me thank you. I&#39;m flattered to be helped in my Opentype and
    Unicode infancy by such professionals as John and Adam Twardoch, and I appreciate
    enormously the effort Eric is doing as well with Process to promote the Opentype
    format. <BR> <BR>You have answered many doubts I had in a few words, but a doubt
    still remains. Adam, when you talk of &#34;most appropriate&#34; OT names, you
    mean &#34;preparing the ground&#34; for something which is not yet standard, or
    are you suggesting a naming convention already adopted by someone? I mean, while
    I was waiting for your answers I used temporarily the names &#34;a.ini&#34; and
    &#34;a.fin&#34;, instead of the four-lettered &#34;extension&#34; you mentioned.
    <BR>If it&#39;s not a rule I&#39;d prefer to stick to three-lettered &#34;extensions&#34;:
    more short and more handy if I have more than a single alternate &#40;i.e. &#34;a.ini&#34;,
    &#34;a.ini2&#34;, etc.&#41; <BR> <BR>This answers a good part of my question.
    However, what would you suggest if, instead of regular alternates, swashes and
    alt.gylphs of a script, I will use the Opentype features in a conceptual or historical
    way? <BR>In a typeface I have in its early stages I will include latin forms from
    various centuries &#40;I, II, III, IV, etc.&#41;, how would you name the alternates?
    It would be interesting to tentatively define a standard. <BR> <BR>I understand
    your suggestion for style sheets is good anyway, expecially when I will use Opentype
    features in a conceptual way. <BR> <BR>A last question. If Unicode values are
    included for PUA usage, will they constitute some kind of problem &#40;besides
    being a delay in the support of Opentype&#41; in Opentype-savy applications or
    will they be just additional/unused information &#40;I think so&#41;?'
  created: '2004-03-12 15:10:03'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: P.S. I can&#39;t wait to read the article on the Cherokee alphabet on your
    website, John. <BR>It&#39;s pretty interesting, considered I thought for a longtime
    to create both an Hebrew and a Cherokee version of my old Ottomat/Tomazooma &#40;since
    I reworked it in a all-unicase fashion as it was thought prior to the Emigre release&#41;,
    because its source of inspiration was a 1960s story of the Fantastic Four set
    in the American Indian environment, created by comic-book legends Jack Kirby and
    Stan Lee &#40;both of Jewish heritage, as many artists which shaped the form of
    the American comic book as a medium&#41;. <BR>I talked a few times with Oded Ezer
    about the Hebrew version, but I had no serious information on the alphabet of
    Chief Sequoyah and its history.
  created: '2004-03-12 15:22:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Claudio,  <BR> <BR>there is no single convention adapted by &#34;everyone&#34;.
    However, those who adopt the convention that I recommend, will perhaps benefit
    from the fact that I&#39;m planning to release an add-in for FontLab that will
    automatically build OpenType Layout features based on these names. So if you have
    a set of glyphs named &#34;a.swsh&#34;, &#34;b.swsh&#34; etc., my tool will build
    the &#34;swsh&#34; feature for you.  <BR> <BR>Note that I have yet no precise
    plans as for the functionality of that tool and its terms of availability.  <BR>
    <BR>Other than that, you can use whatever you want -- there is no and most highly
    will not be any user software that depends on these glyphname suffixes to do some
    functionality.  <BR> <BR>Adam <BR>
  created: '2004-03-12 17:04:29'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: Ok, I&#39;ll stick with &#34;a.init&#34; and &#34;a.fina&#34; and so on. But,
    apart from the benefits from scripts or add-ons like the one you&#39;ve planned,
    I seem to get I can freely use any single name for alternates, and it&#39;s not
    so important to create a standard because they are like, let&#39;s say, &#34;labels&#34;,
    right?
  created: '2004-03-13 18:57:08'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: <i>Personally, I don&#39;t think this is doing the users any favours in the
    long term.</i> <BR> <BR>why do you say that John?
  created: '2004-04-30 16:47:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Electronic documents tend to have a fairly long life, especially today when
    a single document might be published to multiple media. PUA codepoints have a
    number of problems. Firstly, they are inherently unreliable: if you switch fonts
    in a document that includes PUA codepoints, there is no guarantee that your PUA-encoded
    smallcaps or ligatures won&#39;t suddenly become rare Chinese&#42; characters
    or simply the wrong smallcaps or ligatures. The whole point of the PUA is that
    it is not standardised, so anyone can use the codepoints for any purpose. Secondly,
    as soon as you introduce PUA codepoints into a document, you lose the ability
    to reliably spellcheck, search or sort. <BR> <BR>&#42;The PUA area of Unicode
    was originally specified mainly as a place for personal Chinese characters, i.e.
    for idiosyncratic characters representing proper nouns.'
  created: '2004-04-30 17:16:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Electronic documents tend to have a fairly long life <BR> <BR>You really
    think so? Compared to what, speech?!  :-&#62; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-30 17:21:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'I think John and Adam have done a pretty good job of describing the situation.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll note that the PUA has two subsections, of variable and potentially
    overlapping size. The End User Sub-area is from E000 up, and is completely arbitrary.
    The Corporate Use Sub-area is filling in the PUA from the top down, and allows
    people and companies to define specific characters to mean whatever they like.
    Commonly people publish their usage of this part of the PUA, which allows for
    the possibility of shared stuff. <BR> <BR>Adobe&#39;s use of the PUA has been
    to use a section of the CUS &#40;F6xx-F77xx&#41; for certain glyphs that are fairly
    common across different font families, and to use the EUS for unusual or unique
    glyphs. <BR> <BR>The only reason I mention this is that &#42;if&#42; one is going
    to use the PUA, I think it is a fine idea to be aware of and make use of Adobe&#39;s
    CUS assignments. To do so, start at: <a href="http://partners.adobe.com/asn/tech/type/unicodegn.jsp"
    target="_blank">http://partners.adobe.com/asn/tech/type/unicodegn.jsp</a> <BR>
    <BR>However, I won&#39;t argue with Adam and John&#39;s reasons for not wanting
    to put EUS codepoints in fonts in the first place. If we were starting from scratch,
    I expect we&#39;d not take the same path ourselves. Of course, these days, there
    are a lot more and more popular OpenType aware applications than there were when
    we had to make the decision. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-04-30 17:43:03'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Thomas <BR> <BR>Other than Illustrator, InDesign and Photoshop what are the
    other popular OpenType aware applications? <BR> <BR>Nigel
  created: '2004-04-30 19:35:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: ' I think those three are the only ones that currently support features for
    advanced typography for Western languages. <BR> <BR>A bunch of Microsoft&#39;s
    applications support quite a few OpenType layout features, but only when those
    features are required for language support. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T '
  created: '2004-05-01 00:56:17'
date: '2004-03-10 21:36:47'
title: 'Opentype: standard names for alternates?'
...
