---
author:
  name: jonathanlawley
  picture: 110256
body: Can anyone recommend a serif type for use in a book. I want something fresh
  looking with a crisp cut. I&#39;m quite open-minded. <BR> <BR>Thank you
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think Alfon would do you well. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.terminaldesign.com/retail_specimen.php?ID=1191&amp;viewFam=1"
    target="_blank">http://www.terminaldesign.com/retail_specimen.php?ID=1191&amp;viewFam=1</a>
    <BR> <BR>Check out the pdf samples, lots of text in different sizes.
  created: '2004-03-11 12:32:16'
- author:
    name: colinbennett
    picture: 109955
  body: The new typeface, Plume from Dalton Maag is looking very sexy indeed. I think
    its release is just around the corner and would be well worth checking out. I&#39;m
    sure it&#39;ll be priced in line with the rest of their faces. <BR> <BR>http://www.leftofsix.com/typophile/plume.gif
  created: '2004-03-11 12:36:44'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: What is the nature of the book?
  created: '2004-03-11 12:59:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Jonathan, we really need to know as much about the book as possible, like:
    <BR>1&#41; How long is it? <BR>2&#41; What is it about? <BR>3&#41; Illustrations:
    what proportion versus text, and what style? <BR>4&#41; What&#39;s the target
    demographic? <BR>5&#41; How readable &#40;versus stylistic&#41; do you want it
    to be? <BR>6&#41; What &#34;structures&#34; do you have? Like smallcaps, italic,
    etc. <BR> <BR>Plume: That survey is certainly a brilliant idea. I just wish they
    asked our <i>design</i> opinions too.  :-&#62; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-11 18:02:35'
- author:
    name: jonathanlawley
    picture: 110256
  body: The book is about botany. <BR> <BR>It
  created: '2004-03-11 19:35:30'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: <i>It
  created: '2004-03-11 19:45:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I don&#39;t know about &#34;not a compromise&#34; &#40;since all design is,
    especially text font design&#41;, but I might recommend FB Whitman, except maybe
    it&#39;s not very 21st century. It does seem great for botany though, and it&#39;s
    highly readable in long stretches &#40;your case&#41;, plus it is &#34;effortless&#34;.
    Another good possibility is FB Proforma, which is a bit effeminate and less functional,
    but more contemporary. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-11 19:48:07'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Jonathan <BR> <BR>Type is the fountain pen of the gods. <BR> <BR>My inclinations
    are opposite to most. What works for me may not for you. I never tackle any project
    with <i>a fixed idea</i> in mind. <BR> <BR>Other than a glass of wine. <BR><a
    href="http://lanstontype.com/WineGlass.html" target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/WineGlass.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>My designs are one of discovery, as you can see, I am a simple man without
    any ideas, or opinions. I suppose working with the narrow parameters you have
    chosen for yourself is for others more brave than myself. <BR> <BR>Also if I were
    to, and I do, design books, the last thing I would ever do is ask anyone for help
    choosing a typeface. Taste is what will decide the success of <i>book building.</i>
    So if it fails, it is because of you. No book has ever won any award simply because
    it was set in  the <i>latest model type face.</i> Type design, thankfully, does
    not follow <i>any planned obsolescence marketing model.</i> Recycling is good
    practice. We do not want perfectly good fonts leaching toxins in a land fill site.
    Do we? <BR> <BR>Type design is steeped in tradition. Built to last for hundreds
    of years. Some, hard to imagine, but in this very forum, bitterly complain, that
    types designs hundreds of years old outperform the digital carnival that is coming
    to town. Type is an investment, not a <i>Bic Pen throw away consumable.</i> <BR>
    <BR>Type is a language, dialects tend to stick around.  <BR> <BR>That said, maybe
    you should listen to Hrant. He is a rational man, hates artist and poets. But
    I think he likes wine. <BR> <BR>So he can&#39;t be all that bad, can he? <BR>
    <BR>
  created: '2004-03-12 10:53:47'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: Can I add my 2d worth as a constant user, not a designer, of books. <BR> <BR>I
    find the typeface to be about the least important thing in whether a book is nice
    to read. How the type is set, and how it is printed, and on what paper, and how
    the book is bound -- these are far more important. Crispness and modernity are
    as likely to come from the design of the book, as from the design of the type.
    I have often seen two books set in the same type, and one is lovely to read, the
    other ghastly. This is down to the detailed typography, not the typeface. <BR>
    <BR>I suspect that using a new typeface for a book is a leap in the dark. Very
    long text settings really stretch text types. Little tiny idiosyncracies which
    would be perfectly tolerable in, say, a magazine article, become infuriating.
    <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t know how many books you have designed. But if the answer
    is &#34;not many&#34;, it might be better to choose a typeface that is in common
    use so that you can look at lots of books that use it and learn its idiosyncracies.
    There is still surely plenty of scope for creativity in the many other &#40;actually,
    more important&#41; design choices to be made.
  created: '2004-03-12 11:12:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'I agree with Paul that there are many other factors as &#40;or even more&#41;
    important to the design of a book as the text typeface. If those other things
    have been dealt with competently, however, the choice of a typeface can play a
    key role in determining the &#34;voice&#34;.  <BR> <BR>And, as Gerald implied,
    the choice of a text typeface is often a very personal one for a book designer.  <BR>
    <BR>It is tricky to work with a new typeface. I often play for a long time with
    a new face, before I feel comfortable spec&#39;ing it. When time is tight, I fall
    back on old favorites because they are reliable in the clutch. <BR> <BR>But someone
    has to be bold and put these new faces through their paces, so good for you for
    wanting to explore. <BR> <BR>Hrant did not provide a link above, so allow me to
    do so. Whitman may be seen and purchased at the Font Bureau site: <a href="http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/font_frames.tpl?fontname=Whitman"
    target="_blank"> www.fontbureau.com/fonts/font_frames.tpl?fontname=Whitman</a>.
    <BR> <BR>However, online showings are not so helpful for book types. A more extensive
    PDF specimen is available from my site: <a href="http://www.kentlew.com/Type/"
    target="_blank"> www.kentlew.com/Type/</a>. The Whitman PDF has several samples
    in text sizes &#40;9-14 point&#41; with two different leadings. <BR> <BR>Even
    this is not as good as seeing some real-world uses. Unfortunately, the books that
    I&#39;m aware of using Whitman are all from relatively small publishers here in
    the States. I don&#39;t know that any of them would be on a UK bookshelf. The
    most likely would be <i>Extreme Simplicity</i> by Christopher and Dolores Lynn
    Nyerges &#40;Chelsea Green Publishing Co., 2002&#41;. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll go one
    better than that, though. If Whitman fits your criteria and you would like to
    seriously consider it, then send me 1000 words of your sample text in plain text
    format and give me some specs -- trim and margins, or line-length, leading, and
    number of lines -- and I&#39;ll set you some sample pages in a couple sizes and
    send back a PDF file. <BR> <BR>Best of luck with your project. <BR> <BR>-- Kent.'
  created: '2004-03-12 13:18:31'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: Kent -- I hope you didn&#39;t take my comments as in any way hinting that
    Whitman would not be suitable. Whitman from what I&#39;ve seen of it &#40;never,
    unfortunately, a book&#41; is probably a great text face. What is more, it is
    in a tradition of other great text faces. I&#39;d love to see it used in some
    books. <BR> <BR>It really can make all the difference in the world, even with
    a good typeface, whether it is used or abused. Some perfectly horrible things
    are done with wonderful fonts; some fairly respectable books can be made with
    nasty typefaces &#40;though it&#39;s harder&#41;. <BR> <BR>I wish Jonathan the
    very best of luck in choosing a font; may he both choose and use well.
  created: '2004-03-12 14:22:52'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: <b>Whitman</b> <BR> <BR><i>Type design is steeped in tradition. Built to last
    for hundreds of years.</i>
  created: '2004-03-12 14:40:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Jonathan, never stop asking. Communication is what makes us human. <BR> <BR>BTW,
    I think artists and poets are cute. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-12 17:33:19'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: <i>&#62;Kent -- I hope you didn&#39;t take my comments as in any way hinting
    that Whitman would not be suitable.</i> <BR> <BR>Not in any way, Paul.  <BR> <BR>--
    K. <BR>
  created: '2004-03-12 17:57:18'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>I&#39;m never going to get to &#34;forum heaven&#34; by changing
    the topic. Oh, well. <BR> <BR>Do you know where Vallejo, CA is?
  created: '2004-03-12 18:52:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Boris? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-12 18:58:59'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Boris ! ?
  created: '2004-03-12 20:19:34'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: Jonathan,  <BR> <BR>I&#39;d recommend Mark van Bronkhorst&#39;s <a href="http://www.mvbfonts.com/html/fonts/verdigris/pk_verdigris.htm">Verdigris</a>,
    which is not only an excellent face for text, but recently released.
  created: '2004-03-12 22:03:14'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Hrant...hahahaha!
  created: '2004-03-13 00:32:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/Search?searchtext=tyfa" target="_blank">Tyfa</a>
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;m using Tyfa for a series of radical liberal books right now, and
    I thought it worked with the content. But, I guess I made that choice as a designer
    and not as a typographer. :^&#92;  <BR> <BR>Do all of you find Tyfa to be to idiosyncratic
    for book work?
  created: '2004-03-13 00:54:51'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: I&#39;ve never seen a book set in Tyfa, as far as I know. I would have expected
    it to be too intrusive &#40;especially the f&#41; for more than a few pages, but
    one never knows. It would certainly give a book a very &#34;designed&#34; look.
    But at least its fussiness is not &#34;calligraphic&#34; fussiness, or arts-and-craftsy.
    How are you finding it over the long haul?
  created: '2004-03-13 01:08:02'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: More vocabulary question than a proposal? <BR>&#34; looking with a crisp cut.&#34;  <BR>
    <BR>Does Le Monde Journal is a &#34;Crisp cut&#34; type? <BR>&#40;<a href="http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/LeMondeJournal"
    target="_blank">http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/LeMondeJournal</a>&#41;
  created: '2004-03-13 08:03:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think LM-Journal is definitely &#34;crisp&#34;. By contrast, LM-Courier
    is maybe crisp in its structures, but not in its finish &#40;but that makes it
    warmer&#41;. <BR> <BR>BTW, your site was working fine for me &#40;WinXP/IE6&#41;
    until very recently, but now it looks like it looks on NS: a tall column of disjointed
    elements on a white background. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-13 16:02:40'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: 'Hrant, thanks to confirm my early feelings. <BR> <BR> <BR>MS6: I just checked,
    yes i confirm stop to work. Work well on Mozilla wind, Safari, Explorer 5.2 mac;
    Thanks for that we will lokk at it. Seems CSS stop to work only under IE 6 only.'
  created: '2004-03-13 16:24:34'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: 'Specially for Hrant: <BR><a href="http://www.typofonderie.com/gazette/hot_news/?id=43"
    target="_blank">http://www.typofonderie.com/gazette/hot_news/?id=43</a> <BR>thanks
    again.'
  created: '2004-03-13 16:43:59'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: Css corrected now! <BR> <BR>&#40;Last off topic post, sorry&#41;
  created: '2004-03-13 17:34:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Fully serifed faces don&#39;t look 21st century, unless they are made a little
    too distinctive for extended book work. <BR> <BR>So how about a semi-serif? <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;m not sure that &#34;crisp cut&#34; and biology go together, surely
    something organic would be more sympatico? <BR> <BR>You can have clarity of form
    without razor sharp details, so I would recommend Sauna.
  created: '2004-03-13 21:15:51'
- author:
    name: jonathanlawley
    picture: 110256
  body: Two types that have what i&#39;m looking for are Le Monde and Lexicon. <BR>
    <BR><a href="http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/LeMondeJournal" target="_blank">http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/LeMondeJournal</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.teff.nl/fonts/lexicon/lexicon.html" target="_blank">http://www.teff.nl/fonts/lexicon/lexicon.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>Does anyone have a sample of Lexicon, the PDF on the site does not print
    well.
  created: '2004-03-13 21:28:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'E-mail TEFF and they will send you printed samples. Note the prices, which
    are the highest in the world, I believe. Great fonts, though. '
  created: '2004-03-13 22:55:22'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'I recommend neither of those for a book &#40;sorry&#41;. You&#39;ve picked
    two lovely fonts built for economy and small size &#40;newspapers: Le Monde, and
    Bibles: Lexicon&#41;. Notice how short the acenders and decenders are. Great for
    narrow columns with tight leading, bad for books. The silver lining is, both offer
    a version that would work better for books. From JFP there is Le Monde Livre &#40;see
    also the lovely Apolline&#41;. From Ensched'
  created: '2004-03-13 22:58:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I haven&#39;t seen TEFF&#39;s Trinite used, but I think it is amazingly beautiful. '
  created: '2004-03-13 23:10:41'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: '&#62; E-mail TEFF and they will send you printed samples. <BR> <BR>There&#39;s
    also the original Lexicon specimen book, available from <a href="http://www.nijhoflee.nl/design/typography/">
    Nijhof &amp; Lee</a> &#40;16 euros, 32 pages, paperback&#41;.'
  created: '2004-03-13 23:18:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Nick, I&#39;m a big fan of the semi-serif&#42;, but I don&#39;t think full-serif
    fonts are necessarily non-21st century. The wedge serif &#40;like in Foundry&#39;s
    Form&#41; I feel is very contemporary. <BR> <BR>&#42; Although there are very
    few of them, and most of those are too calligraphic &#40;like Meier&#39;s stuff&#41;.
    FF Avance is a nice one, although a bit on the portly side. <BR> <BR>Hey Jonathan,
    what do you think of this book face? <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&amp;patria/dev/nour-latin.gif"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&amp;patria/dev/nour-latin.gif</a>
    <BR>No, that&#39;s not the italic.  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-14 01:40:57'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: As a book publisher I am sorry but I cannot help but take offense at the question
    &#34;Can anyone recommend a serif type for use in a book?&#34; <BR> <BR>As if
    one book were the same as another. <BR> <BR>The correct way to discover the right
    typeface is to read the text closely.
  created: '2004-03-14 04:27:51'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: BTW, Gerald, Vallejo is in the San Francisco Bay Area at the Carquinez Strait
    where the Sacramento River enters the bay.
  created: '2004-03-14 04:45:11'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: t christensen, <BR> <BR>I have a purchase offer on this 63&#39; vessel subject
    to personal inspection, survey, and sea trials. I believe a man needs a foot of
    waterline for every year of his life. So this vessel should be sufficient until
    I am 63. <BR> <BR><a href="http://204.212.231.3/landfall/" target="_blank">http://204.212.231.3/landfall/</a>
    <BR> <BR>Edwin Schock designed her. The interior has been painted and requires
    stripping, refinishing and new cable for her standing rigging. I have restored
    several vessels. In Finland I am working under a master Scandinavian wood boat
    builder. <BR> <BR>Anyway, <i>Vallejo</i> is where the vessel lies. I worried I
    was heading towards Mexico. I have been to Sacramento and Nevada city so I have
    seen the river. <BR> <BR>Do you sail? I will be looking for someone foolish to
    join me and sail her to Greece. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-14 06:05:15'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>What an appealing prospect, sailing to Greece! <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    afraid, however, that it may fall into the category of fantasy. But I am near
    enough to Vallejo to look at the vessel and take some pictures for you if you
    like. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-14 06:39:10'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: t christensen, <BR> <BR><i>I&#39;m afraid, however, that it may fall into
    the category of fantasy.</i> <BR> <BR>I have never been know to use reality as
    a crutch. However, my fantasy of Greece is not working, I am freezing, I must
    get some wood. <BR> <BR>I will return.
  created: '2004-03-14 07:17:26'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: t christensen, <BR> <BR>Henry Bullen and North Point Press were held in high
    regard, both for content and beauty.  I don&#39;t remember the entire story, I
    think North Point was owned by a real estate mogul with sophisticasted ideas about
    books. <BR> <BR>Look, I may take you up on your offer. I think however I won&#39;t
    need to, I am heading to British Columbia March 21rst, then to the vessel. But
    look, if you are in that area, should I look you up?
  created: '2004-03-14 07:42:20'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Finally, I am warm, and have had my first coffee. Can&#39;t write without
    coffee. Now I have nothing to say.  <BR> <BR>Except I need an editor.
  created: '2004-03-14 07:49:47'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: Gerald <BR> <BR>Absolutely. Not to sidetrack the discussion further, I will
    post you an e-mail. <BR> <BR>Tom
  created: '2004-03-14 17:03:43'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: t christensen <BR> <BR>Post to sales[at]lanstontype[dot]com. I have not updated
    the typophiles data. <BR>
  created: '2004-03-14 17:11:14'
- author:
    name: Daniel Poindexter
    picture: 110054
  body: I don&#39;t mean to divert the topic too much, but does anyone know why Ensched
  created: '2004-03-16 06:11:26'
date: '2004-03-11 11:39:05'
title: Recommendation
...
