---
author:
  name: kristin
  picture: 110305
body: Hello, <BR> <BR>We created a font in Fontographer and tested it on Suitcase
  11 in OS10.3.2. The font does not appear in the preview pane of Suitcase 11 and
  the activation of the font is very slow &#40;about 10 seconds rather than immediate
  loading&#41;. <BR> <BR>We also tried Suitcase 10 in OS9.2 with the same results.
  The font views and prints fine in Quark. <BR> <BR>Anyone have similar problems or
  ideas for a fix? <BR> <BR>kristin <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: goodidea
  body: I have also some fonts with no previews in suitcase &#40;these are no Fontographer
    fonts&#41;, but I can active them and they work. but I can&#39;t tell you any
    reasons of this behavior.
  created: '2004-04-03 20:01:34'
- author:
    name: c_acker
    picture: 110528
  body: Kristin,  <BR> <BR>I have had a similiar problem. I am running Mac OS 10.3.3
    Extensis Suitcase X1 and am creating fonts in Fontlab 4.6.  <BR> <BR>My problem
    has been specifically with creating OT fonts. I am not yet developing any OT features
    to these fonts, but just for the cross platform feature. Suitcase doesn&#39;t
    seem to acknowledge them when I try to add them to a set. <BR> <BR>The OS, however
    does recognize them when I place them in the fonts folder in my library. I&#39;ve
    just been confused up til now, thinking it was my rookie practice of namimg or
    generating my fonts wrong but it seems as though there must also being something
    quirky with Suitcase. <BR>
  created: '2004-05-07 20:02:48'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: 'I have run into similar issues with fonts that are named certain ways: eg:
    menu names that begin with a numeral, such as Fountain&#39;s <a href="http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/london.asp">London</a>
    family. Again, they can be activated and used, but the preview window in SuitCase
    cannot display the font. <BR> <BR>Quirky is an awfully kind word for SuitCase.'
  created: '2004-05-07 20:17:44'
date: '2004-03-11 14:14:20'
title: Font doesn&#39;t preview in Suitcase in OS 10.3.2
...
