---
author:
  name: connie
body: 'Hi everyone. I am designing a poster for a school project. The poster is in
  the Art Deco style  &amp; I am limited to the fonts I have installed on my computer
  &#40;Type Classics for learning.&#41; Calcite Pro &amp; Chicago are 2 I like best.
  What do you think? OR ... do you have a better suggestion? '
comments:
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'Try Moonglow or Eccentric. '
  created: '2004-03-17 20:47:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'No disrespect to John, but you should figure this out: the Art Deco period
    was mainly during the 1920s and 30s &#40;with a revival c.1970&#41;, and characterized
    by geometric shapes. So categorize the typefaces you have accordingly, and you
    will come up with a hardcore, authentic choice. <BR> <BR>You can find out the
    dates of the typefaces at the Adobe.com/type website.'
  created: '2004-03-17 23:37:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Moonglow is more in the Art Nouveau style, no? More uneven, organic. <BR>
    <BR>Certainly neither Calcite nor Chicago is particularly Art Deco.
  created: '2004-03-18 00:08:30'
- author:
    name: connie
  body: Thanks Nick. I have looked at Art Deco posters, comparing them to the typefaces
    I have, trying to match them up, evidently, not too successfully. I  like your
    idea of checking out the dates of the typefaces at the Adobe.com site. I am heading
    there to do just that now! Thanks also Thomas and John for your imput.
  created: '2004-03-18 02:42:18'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'Yes, Nick: <BR> <BR>Read Deco, thought Nouveau. Thanks for catching that
    before it did any harm to people&#39;s grades! <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t see anything
    Deco-ish on the Type Classics list. <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-18 03:52:25'
date: '2004-03-17 19:21:20'
title: Which typeface in the Adobe Type Classics for Learning library best matches
  the Art Deco period?
...
