---
author:
  name: alyce
body: So I&#39;m starting a new job soon. Anyone have any advice -- humorous or not
  -- for me as I make the move from freelance to a full-time position in a small design
  firm? <BR> <BR>Interesting employment stories are also welcome. You know, strangest
  interview, quirky first design job, best or worst boss, unusual office rituals &#40;bagel
  day and red shirt day are two that come to mind&#41;, etc., etc.
comments:
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Don
  created: '2004-03-18 04:28:32'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: At one job I was very unpleasantly surprised at how insulated my 4-man office
    was. The two principals never read Print or CA or any other design publication,
    so had only a vague idea of what current design looked like. <BR> <BR>I have to
    disagree with H
  created: '2004-03-18 14:21:54'
- author:
    name: defrancisco
    picture: 110421
  body: Look, listen, share, ask, contribute,... <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve also used the old
    &#34;bring breakfast once in a while&#34; with good results, both being staff
    and as a boss. Food brings people together :-&#41;
  created: '2004-03-18 18:28:16'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Thanks for the comments, gentlemen. It&#39;s true that extra hours can be
    an issue that causes hard feelings between an employer and an employee. I&#39;m
    happy to say that in this instance the issue has already been discussed and resolved.
    :-&#41;  <BR> <BR>John, how long did you work at the office you mentioned? Were
    you able to influence the principals reading habits at all? <BR> <BR>&#34;Look,
    listen, share, ask, contribute,... &#34; Good advice for any number of arenas.
    Ditto, sharing food, although I must say it seems to be more of a challenge these
    days to find something that fits into everyone&#39;s diet.  <BR> <BR>Thanks. <BR>
    <BR>Any other work-related stories you wish to share? <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-19 05:48:27'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: '&#34;Don'
  created: '2004-03-19 05:56:20'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Kyle, I understand the point that you&#39;re making; I really do. But H
  created: '2004-03-19 06:43:24'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: They were very much set in their ways. The funny thing was that they subscribed
    to both Print and CA, but they did so because that&#39;s what design companies
    do, not because they were interested in reading the magazines. I knew that place
    was the wrong fit for me, but I stayed a year because I wanted to give them a
    fair try. <BR> <BR>Another suggestion I&#39;d have is to do things to keep design
    fun, even if the stuff you&#39;re working on isn&#39;t fun. I&#39;m always bringing
    in personal projects and ideas from home to show my coworkers.
  created: '2004-03-19 11:22:16'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: 'John, my shortest term of employment was two days, at Marineland/Africa USA.
    I worked a weekend of training in spring, but by summer  my dad had helped me
    get a job at Ampex in the technical publications department. He was an engineer
    there &#40;ah, nepotism&#41;. They did ask me back for a second summer however,
    so I think I did OK. The unofficial red-shirt-day custom that I mentioned in my
    first post was started by one of the writers there.  '
  created: '2004-03-19 15:23:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: In the words of my father &#40;and probably other more notable people&#41;,
    &#34;It&#39;s easier to be strict in the beginning and loosen up, than it is to
    be loose in the beginning and get strict later on.&#34; <BR> <BR>Making your preferences
    known early on is a good thing, I believe. I think H
  created: '2004-03-19 15:42:38'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: 'Chris,  just to make you crazy: I have a large chocolate cake in the refrigerator
    that I&#39;m taking to one of my freelance clients today. :-&#41; It&#39;s a token
    thank you for one of the best working relationships I&#39;ve ever had. '
  created: '2004-03-19 16:13:06'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Sorry, forgot to mention the buttercream icing and chocolate mousse filling.
    Mmmmm... mousse filling.
  created: '2004-03-19 16:20:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: '::falls off chair::'
  created: '2004-03-19 16:29:56'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: M. Alyce ... one nugget from Jack Welch seems noteworthy. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-19 17:28:52'
- author:
    name: defrancisco
    picture: 110421
  body: Great quote, bj. Trying to &#34;add value&#34; is a great aspiration, not
    only to gain respect from employer/clients, but also because it is a proven way
    to make sure you keep developing yourself. <BR> <BR>Kyle, about my &#34;icon&#34;
    I started with a square page grid and tried to make a self portrait out of it.
    I haven&#39;t resolved the glasses issue yet   ;-&#41;
  created: '2004-03-19 19:21:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Think like a team-player. Look for what position you can fill and don&#39;t
    think you should only fill one certain position. If you enter a job thinking you
    might be a team on your own those are the only projects you will be given.
  created: '2004-03-19 19:39:06'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '&#62; Ditto, sharing food, although I must say it seems to be more <BR>&#62;
    of a challenge these days to find something that fits into  <BR>&#62; everyone&#39;s
    diet.  <BR> <BR>Two words: Tofu donuts <BR> <BR>Wait, what&#39;s the emoticon
    for vomiting?  :-&#40;&#41;x <BR> <BR>&#62; Kyle, about my &#34;icon&#34; I started
    with a square page grid and  <BR>&#62; tried to make a self portrait out of it.
    I haven&#39;t resolved the  <BR>&#62; glasses issue yet ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>Mmm,
    <a href="http://www.peix.org/files/ftp/bauhaus.gif" target="_blank">bauhaus</a>.
    <BR> <BR>The best employees are the ones that are proactive and take initiative.
    They don&#39;t come to you pointing out problems you should fix, they come with
    suggested solutions. Doing that without sounding like a pushy know-it-all is another
    thread. =&#41; <BR> <BR>Good luck at your new position.'
  created: '2004-03-19 23:51:04'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Chris and Joseph, thanks, I can&#39;t seem to stop laughing. BTW, the cake
    was delicious. :-&#41; <BR> <BR>BJ, Jes
  created: '2004-03-20 01:45:30'
- author:
    name: alyce
  body: Morning all, I&#39;ve decide to put your advice to work today on the current
    job at hand, house work. So... <BR> <BR>1. &#34;Look..&#34;  Not a problem, I&#39;ve
    been looking at the dust bunnies for days now.  <BR>2. &#34;Listen.&#34; Also
    not a problem. It&#39;s hard to ignore such a commanding presence.  <BR>3. &#34;Share.&#34;  Hmmm,
    share. I have a few choice thoughts I&#39;d like to share with those rabbits...
    <BR>4. &#34;Ask.&#34; I&#39;m asking... I&#39;m begging... I&#39;m pleading...
    Do I really have to do this? <BR>5. &#34;Contribute.&#34; Renewed resolve. I am
    going to do this. No time like the present. It needs to be done and I&#39;m the
    person to do it. <BR> <BR>Have a great weekend. :-&#41;
  created: '2004-03-20 17:41:34'
date: '2004-03-18 03:20:08'
title: Play nice with the other designers
...
