---
author:
  name: Toby
  picture: 109971
body: When I paste a template into FontLab, it turns into a super low-res, ragged,
  totally useless thing... <BR>Is this how it should be?
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Which template? Paste from where? What system? What applications?  <BR> <BR>Adam
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-21 10:16:36'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: 'Doesnt matter from where I paste it , the result gets the same '
  created: '2004-03-21 10:58:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'I still don&#39;t understand.  <BR> <BR>1. Do you mean:  <BR>&#40;a&#41;
    &#34;Template&#34;, which is the vector-based drawing, one per font, that is used
    as reference for each glyph throughout the entire font, or <BR>&#40;b&#41; &#34;Background&#34;,
    which is the bitmap image, one per glyph, that is used as reference for a given
    glyph in a font?  <BR> <BR>2. In which application do you use the command &#34;Copy&#34;?
    In which application do you use the command &#34;Paste&#34;? &#40;That is, are
    you copy-pasting from Photoshop to FontLab, or from FontLab to Photoshop?&#41;
    <BR> <BR>3. Can you show the original image and a screenshot showing the result
    in FontLab?  <BR> <BR>4. If you are a registered FontLab user, you&#39;re obviously
    entitled to free technical support. Since this is a FontLab-specific problem,
    may I ask you to use the FontLab Problem Report Form at <a href="http://www.fontlab.com/html/support.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.fontlab.com/html/support.html</a>  <BR>so that the
    personnel at Fontlab Ltd. can review your problem? If you&#39;re attaching multiple
    files, please zip them into one archive.  <BR> <BR>Best,  <BR>Adam  <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-21 11:10:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: I haven&#39;t, but should, ask for the version numbers of FontLab and ScanFont
    that you use.  <BR> <BR>Please include them in your problem report.  <BR> <BR>Adam
  created: '2004-03-21 11:11:53'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Sorry, i ment the background in FL is ragged. I
  created: '2004-03-21 11:40:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Oh, now I see what you mean. FontLab only supports monochrome &#40;black-and-white&#41;
    images in the Background layer. Your original is greyscale, so it gets converted
    to black-and-white when pasting. The resolution remains the same.  <BR> <BR>You
    can covert it manually &#40;e.g. in Photoshop&#41;. If the resolution is not sufficient,
    use a bitmap with higher resolution.  <BR> <BR>Regards,  <BR>Adam Twardoch <BR>Fontlab
    Ltd.  <BR>
  created: '2004-03-21 13:35:21'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: And if the details get lost, you can interpolate the image to a higher resolution,
    and use some other method &#40;not threshold&#41; while converting to bitmap.
    <BR>This will preserve some additional shading detail. Anyway, the best thing,
    if the sketch is needed in grayscale for better evaluation, is to go back and
    forth between FreeHand/Illustrator and Fontlab. With the new copying options it&#39;s
    a snap, and Freehand 10/MX works just great.
  created: '2004-03-22 22:01:15'
date: '2004-03-21 09:49:45'
title: Ragged templates in FL
...
