---
author:
  name: Stephen Coles
  picture: 128126
body: I am attempting to import spacing info from a finished font to <BR>a font that
  has no sidebearings at all. The kerning info imports <BR>just fine, but sidebearings
  are only added to the right side &#40;and <BR>in strange large values, at that&#41;.
  I&#39;ve tried importing the .met,  <BR>.afm, and the bitmap file. What up? <BR>
  <BR>Fontographer 4.1.4, Mac
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'An update: <BR> <BR>Tried this very same thing in FontLab 4.6 in the Metrics
    Window  <BR>and it only imports the <i>left</i> sidebearings. How amusing. <BR>
    <BR>Is there any way to import sidebearings from one font to another? <BR>&#40;Maybe
    there&#39;s an obscure Windows tool ... it would almost make me <BR>go PC.&#41;'
  created: '2004-03-22 15:31:31'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Coles, going PC? <BR>You must really be in a pinch. <BR> <BR>Here&#39;s what
    you do &#40;in Fontlab&#41; <BR>1.&#41; Open both files. <BR>2.&#41; Select the
    characters from <BR>from the file whose sidebearings you want to copy. <BR>3.&#41;
    Then Edit &#62; Copy <BR>4.&#41; Switch to the open file to which you&#39;d like
    <BR>to apply the sidebearings and select the same <BR>characters &#40;this is
    key&#41;. <BR>5.&#41; Then Edit &#62; Paste Special <BR>6.&#41; Select the left
    and right sidebearing options <BR>and hit ok. <BR> <BR>This should do the trick.
    <BR>There are others ways to do this but this <BR>is the fastest and smoothest.
  created: '2004-03-22 16:04:11'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Your logic saved me, Eric. This is actually a method I&#39;ve tried <BR>before
    on <a href="http://groups.msn.com/FontLab/general.msnw?action=get_message&amp;mview=0&amp;ID_Message=2997&amp;LastModified=4675464623045153391"
    target="_blank">another project</a>, but it didn&#39;t work then, so I didn&#39;t
    <BR>even try it this time. But, whaddya know, it likes me now. Thanks!
  created: '2004-03-22 16:28:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Well shoot. Now I want to copy the kerns using that method and <BR>I remember
    that&#39;s what didn&#39;t work when I tried before. Some <BR>people on the FontLab
    list say this works, but not for me. The <BR>sidebearings copy, but not the kerns.
    Do the fonts have to have  <BR>the same encoding? I am not sure how to change
    mine properly.
  created: '2004-03-22 23:13:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Ok... <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve copied <i>sidebearings</i> by using Paste Special
    and <i>kerning</i> by <BR>importing kerning via &#34;Open Metrics&#34; in the
    Metrics Window. <BR> <BR>Whew. Hopefully you won&#39;t have to hear my whinin&#39;
    for a while.
  created: '2004-03-22 23:21:03'
date: '2004-03-22 13:15:59'
title: Import spacing info
...
