---
author:
  name: fraternemo
  picture: 109932
body: 'hello everybody! <BR> <BR>shame, shame, shame! no replies yet to my first post.
  gimme a blanket to dry my tears ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>nevertheless i keep on working
  on my latest baby and it looks really nice and crazy as you can see <a href="http://www.matthiasnicolai.com/betabender.html">here</a>
  <BR> <BR>cheerio! '
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Matthias -- I will assume that this typeface shouldn&#39;t be used for text
    settings, right? I don&#39;t see a _v_ anywhere, but the _u_ looks more like a
    _v_. I don&#39;t think you need the downstroke on the a to complete itself at
    the baseline, I think it should just be rounded. While your _m_ is clever, next
    to an _e_ it looks too small, or maybe the _e_ is too large? The _w_ seems a little
    narrow. The _r_ might need work in regards to combinations such as _ri_ where
    it disappears. Your _ff_ ligature is too wide as well. You might consider just
    posting a JPG of the characters.
  created: '2004-03-23 23:21:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Matthias, on the one hand I don&#39;t want to discourage you. On the other
    hand I&#39;d like to somehow help you to focus on what kinds of type designs might
    be appreciated by many users &#40;if I can&#41;. <BR> <BR>It feels like this stuff
    is too 90s. Any instance of type design is good &#34;training&#34;, but if you
    want to produce something other people will enjoy I don&#39;t think this will
    prove fruitful. If you decide to continue in this direction anyway, then I hope
    I&#39;m wrong! If you instead decide to use this just as practice, that&#39;s
    great. And if you totally abandon it, then you might find it hard to focus on
    something better, but I think it&#39;s worth the effort. Anyway, don&#39;t just
    give up - good luck! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-23 23:48:26'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: Matthias -- I see this for short heds and titling <BR>&#40;like a bjork vespertine
    CD titling face kinda&#41; <BR>and I&#39;m guessing that you are setting text
    in <BR>this face only to show how it works, more or less. <BR>However, like plenty
    of other one-off display faces, <BR>it should be used in moderation, otherwise
    <BR>the mass of glyphs is difficult to read and/or look at. <BR>Maybe if you set
    some words or short phrases in it, <BR>or did an a-z, then it might be easier
    to critique. <BR> <BR>bj <BR>
  created: '2004-03-23 23:59:46'
- author:
    name: fraternemo
    picture: 109932
  body: Good Morning &#40;here in Germany...&#41;! <BR> <BR>Thanks Tiffany, thanks
    Hrant, thanks bj &#40;beautiful portrait, very encouraging&#41; for your useful
    hints. All of them will be considered with a grateful heart.  <BR> <BR>Of course
    this is a display font, otherwise I would have posted it somewhere else and I
    apologize 1.&#41; not having sent a nice A-Z yet and 2.&#41; not in a usual .gif
    or .jpg format &#40;I
  created: '2004-03-24 09:40:50'
date: '2004-03-23 23:09:44'
title: Newbies second post
...
