---
author:
  name: kris
body: 'Anybody seen the type used for this: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.eink.com/news/releases/pr70.html"
  target="_blank">http://www.eink.com/news/releases/pr70.html</a> <BR> <BR>It is a
  first gen e-paper. I want to know what  <BR>the type looks like! <BR> <BR>kris.'
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: It&#39;s interesting that it seems to be capable of displaying &#34;4 shades
    of gray&#34; &#40;so presumably black, white and 2 grays in between&#41;, and
    since it has 170 dpi resolution, that means it&#39;s just the ticket for handmade
    grayscale bitmapfonts! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-25 06:25:58'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: Hrant -- <BR> <BR>Have you every &#39;been with a gril&#39; and yelled out
    &#39;grayscale&#39; in a moment of passion? :-&#41; <BR> <BR>Hildebrant.
  created: '2004-03-25 06:29:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: No, but I have considered adopting &#34;Gray Power&#34; as my slogan, except
    unfortunately I&#39;m straight. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-25 06:33:39'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: I have a mate who gets blind drunk and  <BR>declares that he is all kerned
    out! <BR> <BR> <BR>kris
  created: '2004-03-25 11:20:18'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: 'There is a bit more information regarding the readability of the display
    technology in this PDF: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.eink.com/pdf/eink_readability_02.pdf"
    target="_blank">http://www.eink.com/pdf/eink_readability_02.pdf</a> <BR> <BR>They
    don&#39;t really get into any detail about the type itself.'
  created: '2004-03-25 14:54:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Isn&#39;t that Tahoma? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-25 17:43:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;I want to know what the type looks like! <BR> <BR>At 170 dpi the &#34;4
    shades of grey&#34; may be only some form of &#34;halftoning&#34; -- it&#39;s
    my understanding that digital paper is strictly &#34;on/off pixel&#34; at the
    moment. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s interesting that they are coming in at the high end,
    rather than with a low-res device and primitive pixel type. But perhaps Sony didn&#39;t
    want to have Japanese bringing up the rear. Or else they realize that cellphone/blackberry
    technology is, to most intents and purposes, pretty similar in functionality with
    this generation of e-paper, until e-paper actually becomes bendable and constrained
    only at the spine. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-25 17:53:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Digital ink works by flipping little cells that are black on one side and
    white on the other. The flipping is done by applying a momentary current to each
    cell. Maybe they can apply a partial current and get the cell to flip 1/3 and
    2/3-rds of the way, getting two shades of gray? That would mean they can also
    apply smaller increments and get more shades. Hey, maybe they can even <i>orient</i>
    the cells and get them to fill corners!  :-&#41; I can see a new bitmap font format,
    where pixels have DIRECTION.  :-&#62; <BR> <BR>By &#34;halftoning&#34; I guess
    you mean the effective dpi for 4 shades goes down to 85? That would suck, and
    might be false advertising too. <BR> <BR>Bendability: I think the paper itself
    is, but maybe they decided to make this product not? Maybe they think people will
    need to get used to the idea, and/or they&#39;re leaving room for improvement
    - a common tactic these days especially. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-25 18:04:24'
- author:
    name: Jon Whipple
    picture: 110113
  body: <i>I can see a new bitmap font format, where pixels have DIRECTION. :-&#62;
    </i> <BR> <BR>Now that would be neat. I can imagine spinning pixels in a grid
    to assign their final orientation. You could even make ruleset that pixel would
    have to re-orient under certain conditions for certain purposes redefining the
    anti-aliasing according to context and use.
  created: '2004-03-26 02:01:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Concerning grayscale: from reading some stuff it seems that there are separate
    &#34;models&#34; for b&amp;w and grayscale rendering - which is encouraging. <BR>
    <BR>BTW, Grant, that PDF contains some interesting insight into why reflective
    media is more conducive to readability than emissive. Although it&#39;s possible
    they&#39;ve ignored the probable relevance of the type-fidelity difference typical
    of reflective-versus-emissive displays. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-26 02:15:18'
date: '2004-03-25 04:29:11'
title: E
...
