---
author:
  name: roasthorse
  picture: 110505
body: ' i was wondering if anyone had strong feelings &#40;either way&#41; about the
  restrictive licencing of fonts by bertholdt and emigre etc. this is something that
  i have only recently become aware of &amp; it seems to me that it can only do harm
  to those foundries &#40;especially smaller ones&#41;. how can those fonts be used
  for corporate identities, magazines etc. when the foundries are restricting the
  media that they can be used in? '
comments:
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: ' Hi Joe, <BR> <BR>The purpose of licensing is simply to protect the use of
    the software and assure that its use will be properly compensated. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    sure if you contact Emigre, they would be happy to discuss custom licensing for
    usage beyond the terms stated in their standard licensing agreement. <BR> <BR>I
    think people assume that when they buy fonts, they buy the fonts. This isn&#39;t
    the case - instead, they purchase the license to use the software but the creator
    always retains rights to the software including how they define its usage and
    compensation for the face. <BR> <BR>Licensing is put in place to legally protect
    small foundries from misuse of their software products. Ans since there isn&#39;t
    any one way to create a license, the sky is the limit. <BR> <BR>A foundry can
    go as far as to state &#34;May not be used to promote any tobacco or alchoholic
    products.&#34; or &#34;You must credit the foundry as: Werethebaddassedmofoswiththecoolestfontsonearth
    - Emigre&#34; <BR> <BR>The point is, if it&#39;s not implicitly defined what you
    cannot do with the font, your only assumption could be that it&#39;s endorsed
    - so do anything. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s just another way to pretect the stuff once
    it gets out the door. Mind you it isn&#39;t meant to be restrictive to the little
    guy designers as much as by the big agencys of the world that really are responsible
    and can afford appropriate comensation. <BR> <BR>My 2&cent; <BR>Stuart :D '
  created: '2002-10-28 23:15:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' I think Joe was talking about restrictions on Flash embedding and stuff.
    And if you have to make the extra effort to get formal permission to do it, that&#39;s
    money, not to mention the extra fee you&#39;d have to pay. Can anybody say &#34;hidden
    cost&#34;? That said, it&#39;s very possible that a given foundry has good reason
    to put such restrictions, in its case. It&#39;s not a simple issue, with many
    sets of opposing, blurry factors. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-10-28 23:23:35'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' I do not think the issue is blurry at all. It is the perogative of any foundry
    to determine the restrictions, if any, on a particular font. It boils down to
    protecting intellectual property, or, the potential loss of revenue, not hidden
    costs. Those two are two entirely distinct concerns and motivations. <BR> <BR>-JimL '
  created: '2002-10-29 01:45:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' No, I meant it&#39;s a blurry decision for a foundry to make in terms of
    how strict to be. You have to consider the nature of your clientele, the mechanics
    of how a font could be extracted from various technologies, short-term cash versus
    long-term mindshare, etc. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-10-29 01:58:56'
date: '2002-10-28 20:38:17'
title: Restrictive font licencing
...
