---
author:
  name: Ramiro Espinoza
  picture: 110426
body: 'Here you can download &#34;Fontographer: Type by design&#34; in PDF format:
  <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://web.that.com.br/will/type/" TARGET="_top">http://web.that.com.br/will/type/</A>'
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Big news for a lot of anxious people. <BR> <BR>Is this legal? Anyway, if
    the publisher of the print version didn&#39;t think they could make money on a
    reprint, then they probably don&#39;t care. On the other hand, they could have
    gained some positive exposure by releasing the PDFs themselves, maybe even selling
    the book in PDF form - FontLab does that with their manuals. So a small lesson
    for MIS Press. <BR> <BR>BTW, it&#39;s interesting that the text is text, not image.
    That might mean OCR was done, which would make it more work. Or maybe somebody
    provided the original digital files? One clue would be the body font: from what
    I remember Moye had modified Goudy&#39;s Italian Old-Style &#40;giving the &#34;y&#34;
    a longer tail&#41;, and an OCR scheme wouldn&#39;t have that &#40;unless the person
    had that special font&#41;... And the PDFs seem to be using the non-Moye short
    tailed version. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-10-29 16:12:47'
- author:
    name: j75
  body: ' Ive been looking for something like this for a long time! <BR> <BR>Seems
    like this is the only reference book available for Fontographer. Why is this?
    Is anyone else supicious? Why are there so conspicously few typrographic software
    programs? And why is it that the main one &#40;Fontographer&#41; hasnt been updated
    for the best part of a decade and is no longer distibuted by Macromedia? Why is
    there only one&#40;?&#41; reference manual available for it and why has its publisher
    stoppped publishing it and mysteriously refuses to pass on the rights etc? Is
    there some kind of conspiracy going on? The truth must be out there...? '
  created: '2002-10-30 02:34:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' No conspiracy that I can see, just that fonts are worth close to nothing
    these days. Why? Partly &#42;because&#42; of Fontographer &#40;the so-called &#34;democratization&#34;
    of type design&#41;, but maybe also because their file-size is so small. Some
    people also blame a certain low perceived value among the public &#40;the alphabet
    is free, blahblahblah&#41;, but I&#39;ve started to think that such &#34;high-level&#34;
    cultural stuff is a side-effect, not a cause. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-10-30 03:21:05'
- author:
    name: j75
  body: ' BTW Muchas Gracias Ramiro! <BR> <BR>I dont know Hrant, I still think its
    a bit suspicious. Democratization is a threat to some, especially large corporations
    to whom it represents a general lack of control. You&#39;d think there would be
    a lot of demand for a program like Fontographer, after all most of us still use
    it right? Enough demand for the continued developement of it at least? Why is
    large corporation not acting like large corporation and going where money is?
    Does Adobe have a font developer program? Not that I know of&#40;?&#41; Arent
    they one of the biggest names in digital typography AND software developement?
    hmm... <BR> <BR>&#40;hope this doesnt sound like paranoia, its just something
    thats always bugged me&#41; '
  created: '2002-10-30 13:26:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Democratization is a threat to some <BR> <BR>Actually, I think that
    in the pig bicture Democracy <BR>has essentially become the best weapon of Capitalism.
    <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-10-30 14:22:46'
- author:
    name: j75
  body: ' I think theres a lot of truth in that, however I&#39;m not sure the likes
    of Bertelsmann, Sony Music, EMI etc would agree with you... '
  created: '2002-10-30 14:38:29'
- author:
    name: botts
  body: Sadly, the pdf is no longer at the link posted. Could someone please link
    to the pdf again so i might download a copy of this text.
  created: '2003-02-28 19:02:55'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: This italian site is working! Enjoy this great book... <BR> <BR><a href="http://members.xoom.virgilio.it/dtp/papers/type_by_design/manuale.htm"
    target="_blank">http://members.xoom.virgilio.it/dtp/papers/type_by_design/manuale.htm</a>
  created: '2003-02-28 20:18:02'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: There is an entire saga surrounding Mr. Moyes book of which I believe the
    story goes something like this, anybody who has first hand information, please
    contribute . . . <BR> <BR>I believe all of the publishing rights to the book are
    still owned by MIS Press. Since the time of its publication MIS Press was absorbed
    by Hungry Minds and now Wiley Publishing and Wiley has no intention of selling
    them back or reprinting the book. <BR> <BR>This puts Mr. Moye in a bad situation
    since he doesn&#39;t legally own the content and cannot buy the rights to the
    book back. <BR> <BR>I had tried many times to contact Mr. Moye and he blacklisted
    me from his e-mail list apparently not interested in discussing the matter at
    all. <BR> <BR>I would genuinely like to see a follow up to this book and even
    a re-release since the information the book contains is as useful now as it was
    when it was originally published. <BR> <BR>Stuart :D
  created: '2003-03-01 02:07:18'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: 'I believe Mr Moye has to adapt &#34;Fontographer: type...&#34; to our days.
    If he wrote &#34;Fontlab: Type by design&#34; it would be a great successful.'
  created: '2003-03-01 11:23:41'
- author:
    name: alan
    picture: 110521
  body: What&#39;s to stop users like us from doing just that? If we pool together
    and collect the knowledge, maybe it could be pulled off. One or two people to
    do the layout, ten or more people sending in tips/tricks/methods and screenshots,
    one or two people to edit, and follow an outline agreed upon by those in the know.
    It could be PDF-only, and might be a good refresher course even for the die-hards.
  created: '2003-03-01 13:47:13'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: Funny you should mention that, that was my intention with Font School - <a
    href="http://www.fontschool.com" target="_blank">http://www.fontschool.com</a>
    <BR> <BR>I have prepared much of the sitemap I&#39;d be happy to share but there
    is so much content that needs to be written it has become and overwhelming project.
    <BR> <BR>My goal is to repurpose the best parts of the Moye book and adapt that
    to the working environments of both Fontograper and Font Lab. Unfortunately do
    to my lack of OS, I am still deeply into Fontographer and don&#39;t know much
    about FontLab. <BR> <BR>Any suggestions? <BR>Stuart :D
  created: '2003-03-01 17:36:30'
- author:
    name: alan
    picture: 110521
  body: 'Yes, it would be a daunting task, but think about how many people spend so
    much time helping each other here. A little here and a little there may add up
    faster than you&#39;d think. <BR> <BR>It seems like there could be two distinct
    efforts: one to tackle the technical, application-specific workflow, and the other
    to address the design issues, like making properly proportioned small caps, kerning
    sensibly, etc. Personally, I would be more interested in the former, as the latter
    is often very subjective, so forums like this perhaps better serve that realm.'
  created: '2003-03-02 09:58:10'
- author:
    name: wadsy
  body: It&#39;s gone! <BR> <BR>As I&#39;m new to this forum it looks like I missed
    the link for this essential read - by almost a year!  <BR> <BR>Anyone know where
    it is available???
  created: '2003-10-07 03:41:13'
- author:
    name: ric
  body: 'Chris, maybe it&#39;s gone from the link at the very beginning of this thread,
    but you can still find it here, as noted by Ramiro&#39;s post &#40;in the middle
    of this thread&#41;: <BR> <BR><a href="#" target="_blank">http://link_removed_by_request</a>'
  created: '2003-10-11 22:19:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Guys, this is reproduced without permission of the copyright-holder, and is
    illegal. I know that the book is out of print, but do you think that makes it
    right to pirate it? <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-10-12 06:14:12'
- author:
    name: j75
  body: Personally, I don&#39;t have a problem with it at all
  created: '2003-10-12 16:23:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Thanks Thomas, Isn&#39;t the goal of this site to promote type and its designers
    and protect intellectual property through education. Intellectual property theift
    is a big problem world-wide. Dan
  created: '2003-10-12 16:36:58'
- author:
    name: j75
  body: The-book-is-out-of-print! <BR> <BR>You&#39;re asking me to DENY MYSELF AN
    OPPORTUNITY for the sake not even of moral, but legal rectitude? <BR> <BR>Its
    one thing not to take an opportunity, thats available on the condition that you
    pay for it, without paying for it. Its totally another thing to deny that opportunity
    to yourself, only because no mechanism exists for you to pay for it.
  created: '2003-10-12 18:04:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; do you think that makes it right to pirate it? <BR> <BR>When a situation
    is unreasonable, circumventions like this are necessary. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-12 22:27:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'A couple of points: <BR> <BR>Copyright law varies from country to country,
    and in many jurisdictions, notably in most of Europe, it is considered fair use
    to make a copy of a work for your own personal use. This means that it would be
    legal in some jurisdictions for you to go to a library and photocopy the entirety
    of <i>Fontographer: type by design</i>. <BR> <BR>However, I&#39;m not aware of
    any jurisdiction in which it is legal to <i>publish</i>, i.e. to make public,
    a work without obtaining rights from the copyright holder. Making a PDF version
    of a book available on the Internet for other people to view and download is not
    the same thing as making a copy of the book for your own personal use: it is publishing.
    The fact that a book is out of print does not mean that it is out of copyright,
    and it is neither legal nor ethical to <i>publish</i> someone else&#39;s work
    without permission. <BR> <BR>Yes, Moye&#39;s book is out of print, but that doesn&#39;t
    mean it is not available. Copies show up in second hand bookshops, on Ebay, etc.'
  created: '2003-10-13 02:17:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Additionally, I should point out that it&#39;s my understanding that Stephen
    Moye is working on a new version of the book. <BR> <BR>Is everyone here who is
    pirating it promising they will either destroy all copies or rush out and buy
    a copy of the new one as soon as it comes out? You&#39;d have to do that even
    if it&#39;s just a reprint of the existing one, of course, to make your current
    actions even vaguely ethical &#40;they&#39;d still be illegal, of course&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-10-13 03:13:49'
- author:
    name: wadsy
  body: Thomas, I promise to buy the book the first time I see it in a store. In fact
    I looked for this book extensively about 18 months ago to no avail! <BR> <BR>I
    think you have to be realistic about these things, yes it&#39;s illegal but I&#39;m
    not denying Moye or his publisher profits as I&#39;m not in a position to purchase
    their book in the first place. If you are correct in your knowledge that there
    will be a new book out in the future then I would be very pleased for the opportunity
    to own a copy. <BR> <BR>Regards from Aotearoa - land of the long white cloud <BR>
  created: '2003-10-15 09:04:39'
- author:
    name: ric
  body: 'News of a possible new edition of <i>Fontographer: Type by Design</i> and
    how the rights to the book reverted to its author can be found here: <BR> <BR><a
    href="http://typographi.ca/000600.php#000600" target="_blank">http://typographi.ca/000600.php#000600</a>
    <BR> <BR>Thomas, Dan, John: it wasn&#39;t my intention to promote book piracy.
    But I, too, searched for this book and ended up finding a copy in the library,
    and resorted to photocopying the first three chapters. As far as I know, the website
    where the PDF version is posted isn&#39;t charging any money for viewing the PDFs
    -- how different from the library is that? And it&#39;s not even a good PDF, as
    parts of the book seem to have been scanned with OCR software, so that there are
    typos -- and those sections don&#39;t use the same font as the book, so the text
    doesn&#39;t justify properly, etc. If the book was available somewhere, at a reasonable
    price &#40;not the 200&#43; dollars they are asking for on some websites, which
    I can&#39;t afford!&#41;, I&#39;d buy it in a second.'
  created: '2003-10-17 01:19:31'
date: '2002-10-29 13:44:24'
title: 'Fontographer: Type by design &#40;in PDF format&#41;'
...
