---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' I think this should probably go into the &#34;Technical Issues&#34; forum,
  but apparently I&#39;ve registered once &amp; can&#39;t register again w/ the same
  e-mail, and in the mean time I&#39;ve forgotten my password ... so sorry if this
  is off-topic. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m involved with marketing a TrueType font. &#40;Please
  don&#39;t ask &#34;why TrueType?&#34;; it&#39;s a long story&#41; We have not had
  any problem with the font until last week, when a client w/ a canon printer using
  a Fiery RIP started choking on it. <BR> <BR>PDFs using the font would work fine;
  PS files using the font would not. <BR> <BR>Any ideas about how to fix this, or
  suggestions as to the best place to look for answers? <BR> <BR>Thanks very much.
  <BR> <BR>Jay '
comments:
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: ' Jay -- <BR> <BR>As far as I know, there is no &#34;fix&#34; except, as you
    found out, converting the file to another format like PDF, photoshop, etc. <BR>
    <BR>The problem with TT is that it&#39;s old technology. A fiery rip is newer
    technology based on postscript protocols, of which TT has none. <BR> <BR>Another
    quick fix might be to drop your TT font into Fontographer and recreate it as a
    PS font :-&#41; but if you wanted it TT, I suppose, it would be so already. <BR>
    <BR>Good luck. '
  created: '2002-11-26 11:57:26'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Thanks, John. <BR> <BR>Re: FOG -- I did, I tried, it worked ... &amp; now
    I keep expecting the Spanish Inquisition to burst into my cubicle... <BR> <BR>Have
    a nice thanksgiving! <BR> <BR>Jay '
  created: '2002-11-27 18:11:15'
date: '2002-11-25 17:53:43'
title: TrueType and Fiery RIPs
...
