---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' Hello - Bon Jour - Guten Tag! <BR> <BR>I just would like to introduce myself
  to the members of these fori: I am new here and my name is Matthias Nicolai from
  D'
comments:
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: The excellent book <I>Typo</I> Friedl, Ott and Stein is a generously-sized
    encyclopaedia in French, English and German parallel text. Also available is Huib
    van Krimpen and Rob van de Elzen&#39;s <I>Grafischzakboek</I> with main text in
    Dutch and terms/headings translated into English, German, Italian and Spanish.
    Neither of these may be exactly what you want, but they may prove helpful, and
    both are very fine books.
  created: '2002-11-27 03:15:43'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Welcome! We&#39;ll hope to see your work in the critique. '
  created: '2002-11-27 07:31:53'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: ' Gruesse aus berlin, <BR> <BR>-- jacques '
  created: '2002-11-27 09:07:32'
- author:
    name: trae
  body: ' Hello... I&#39;ve just wandered into these forums myself &#40;and am a copywriter
    with an unhealthy fascination with type&#41;. <BR> <BR>Designing one&#39;s own
    seems like such a massive undertaking, I&#39;m impressed with just the idea of
    doing it... can&#39;t wait to see yours,too! '
  created: '2002-11-27 15:13:27'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: ' All german speakers should also have a look to the following german type
    forums: <BR> <BR>www.typeforum.de <BR>www.typografie.info <BR> <BR>Gr&uuml;&szlig;e
    aus Cottbus! '
  created: '2002-11-29 19:04:29'
date: '2002-11-26 20:13:42'
title: Introducing myself to the board
...
