---
author:
  name: paolo
body: ' Guys, I started a new discussion in Critique/Typography Composition with a
  very looooooong and detailed posting about my current first attempt at magazine
  design. If you can bother, have a look and let me know what you think. <BR>Thank
  you. <BR>Ciao a tutti. <BR> <BR>Paolo '
comments:
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: 'Aw. Disappointed by Fast Company&#39;s new cover. I found the last flag incredibly
    endearing. The compartmentalized cover with the red/black/mustard/cyan color combination
    makes my stomach queasy. <BR> <BR>Inside, now it&#39;s pretty much Standard-Issue
    Magazine Layouts with no Storm at all, which was what I liked best. Now seems
    corporate and robotic. <BR> <BR>they refer readers here: <BR><A HREF="http://www.fastcompany.com/keyword/redesign62"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.fastcompany.com/keyword/redesign62</A> <BR> <BR>Business
    2.0 also changed some things. Mimi Dutta, the new creative director, is a little
    more creative with her feature heds. And she likes DOTS a lot. ...  <BR> <BR>Mac
    Addict did a redesign three or four issues ago. There&#39;s a face inside that
    I can&#39;t seem to figure out. I&#39;ll get a scan up during the week. <BR> <BR>As
    far as throwing magazines out...I have a pack-rat collection of magazines dating
    back about 10 years. Nobody understands why I keep them, including myself....I
    just can&#39;t read a magazine and &#42;throw it away!&#42; <BR> <BR>bj'
  created: '2002-08-18 23:09:06'
- author:
    name: zander
  body: ' Fernando Guti&eacute;rrez is a Pentagram Partner and the creative director
    of COLORS nowadays - he studied at LCP in the early 80&#39;s - apart from COLORS
    &amp; MATADOR - he just did a Phaidon photo book on Gandhi - he is in my book
    one of the finest graphic designers of the classic mould working today. <BR> <BR>Now
    with that said i am a big fan of his stark approach at COLORS which i think is
    the right response to the content and the line of photography they accomodate
    <BR> <BR>His work is much more lively at MATADOR where he reaches astonishing
    expression from so few means &#40;one typeface, often subtle and consistent colors
    and blinding work in proportions&#41; '
  created: '2002-08-19 03:34:11'
- author:
    name: grooves1200
  body: ' i&#39;m glad to see this discussion because i publish a small &#40;in circulation,
    not paper size&#41; print electronic music magazine and since my volunteer art
    director left, i have to design the mag myself.  <BR> <BR>just to detail my experiences
    as a non-designer by trade, i can say i have the following problems: <BR> <BR>1&#41;
    i have to work in black&amp;white &#40;can&#39;t afford color&#41; <BR> <BR>2&#41;
    image quality of photos i receive are of a wide range of quality, from very good
    to horrible. <BR> <BR>3&#41; i can&#39;t afford any design help. <BR> <BR>within
    these constraints, i&#39;d love to get some suggestions on how to work. it seems
    to me that if you get great images to begin with, that helps make a good look
    for a magazine already.  <BR> <BR>i am currently planning on using a new font,
    Sys, for the text and a futuristic-looking font--House Spaceport 3009 for heads.
    one problem i am having is trying to create some kind of &#34;header&#34; for
    our different sections of reviews that meshes well with the rest of the page.
    perhaps i can put together a couple of PDFs when i get home for some input. is
    there a way to upload to this site? <BR> <BR>thanks, sean portnoy <BR>grooves
    magazine--experimental electronic music magazine <BR>groovesmag.com '
  created: '2002-08-19 15:19:09'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Sean, as you mentioned quality photography is key, as  <BR>is quality type.
    <BR> <BR>My strongest suggestion is to find another volunteer  <BR>designer. Students
    eager to get real press experience  <BR>may be a great place to start. <BR> <BR>When
    you&#39;re ready to post samples, please start a new  <BR>thread in Critique &#62;
    Typography/Composition. You&#39;ll get  <BR>a much more focused critique that
    way. '
  created: '2002-08-20 01:34:28'
- author:
    name: grooves1200
  body: ' here&#39;s 2 pages of a spread from my magazine. As you can see, there&#39;s
    nothing at the top of the page that could be a header to indicate that this is
    a Gear Review in our Reviews Section. I&#39;d love to hear any tips for this.
    I&#39;m also post another all-text review page &#40;should be much smaller file&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>\grooves1.jpg <BR> <BR>\grooves2.jpg <BR> <BR>thanks, sean <BR>grooves
    magazine <BR>groovesmag.com '
  created: '2002-08-20 03:02:03'
- author:
    name: grooves1200
  body: ' whoops, didn&#39;t do that right. <BR> <BR>here&#39;s one \image <BR> <BR>here&#39;s
    another \image <BR> <BR>thanks, sean '
  created: '2002-08-20 03:04:42'
- author:
    name: grooves1200
  body: shoot, this is not working for me for some reason. you can send me an email
    and i can send you a pdf file of the spread if you want. <BR> <BR>thanks! <BR>sean
    <BR><A HREF="mailto:grooves1200@yahoo.com">grooves1200@yahoo.com</A> <BR> <BR>&#92;grooves1.jpg
  created: '2002-08-20 03:06:29'
- author:
    name: Michael Surtees
    picture: 110525
  body: I&#39;d agree that good photos, illustration and type are needed for a mag,
    but your shooting blanks without great editorial and content. <BR> <BR>michael
  created: '2002-08-20 04:59:02'
- author:
    name: Michael Surtees
    picture: 110525
  body: AdAge <A HREF="http://www.adage.com/news.cms?newsId=35816" TARGET="_top">http://www.adage.com/news.cms?newsId=35816</A>
    has an article on the redesign of RollingStone.
  created: '2002-08-26 14:17:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Jann Wenner: <BR>&#34;.... it&#39;s not my &#91;expletive&#93; fault!&#34;  <BR>
    <BR>Yeah, just keep passing the blame in a circle - that&#39;ll make everything
    OK. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-08-26 15:55:20'
- author:
    name: Michael Surtees
    picture: 110525
  body: I just found this site a couple days ago <A HREF="http://www.newspagedesigner.com"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.newspagedesigner.com</A> it has more to do with newspapers
    but still very addicting and hours of fun will be had in exploring the portfolios.
    There are some real gems to be found. <BR> <BR>m
  created: '2002-08-30 16:32:55'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: 'Wenner Dumbs Down: New, sexier Rolling Stone is in stores...here are a few
    links. <BR> <BR>Also, Blender&#39;s Editor in Chief is Andy Pemberton. <BR> <BR><A
    HREF="http://www.latimes.com/features/lifestyle/la-lv-rollingstone30aug30.story"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.latimes.com/features/lifestyle/la-lv-rollingstone30aug30.story</A>
    <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.medialifemagazine.com/news2002/jun02/jun24/4_thurs/news3thursday.html"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.medialifemagazine.com/news2002/jun02/jun24/4_thurs/news3thursday.html</A>
    <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.adage.com/news.cms?newsId=35816" TARGET="_top">http://www.adage.com/news.cms?newsId=35816</A>
    <BR> <BR>more stuff at Google'
  created: '2002-08-30 18:47:14'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: bj - I don&#39;t get it. So <A HREF="http://www.adcny.org/hallfame/96woodward.html"
    TARGET="_top">Fred Woodward</A> is gone?  <BR>His work inspired me to be a designer.
    This makes me cry. <BR> <BR>michael - nice link! haven&#39;t seent that. <BR>
    <BR>Stephen
  created: '2002-08-30 18:57:28'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' Stephen: The current Art Director is Andy Cowles. I&#39;m guessing that
    Woodward, Black, Parkinson, Wenner, et al. all contribute &#40;advice or actual
    work&#41; to the look of all Wenner Media publications. What Woodward does day
    to day, I don&#39;t know. I&#39;m just a lowly subscriber. Maybe Jonathan Hoefler
    has some info. <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2002-08-30 19:16:59'
- author:
    name: Michael Surtees
    picture: 110525
  body: ' Stephen - Glad that I could return the favour considering what I&#39;ve
    learned from typographi.ca and of course from this site too. <BR> <BR>m '
  created: '2002-08-30 20:23:47'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: ' I didn&#39;t see any mention of Baseline - man the cover they had with the
    scraped silver ink over florescent orange printing. I would love to know how they
    did that. Obviously hand done I would think? but to millions of issues? <BR> <BR>I
    peeled the price tag off carefully only to realize that they did in fact stamp
    the price tags on when the thick metallic was still wet.  <BR> <BR>the other cover
    that caught my attention was the June issue of Flaunt, the circus scene, punch
    cut, die cuts, replacement maps, and crazy dot gains. craziness I say. '
  created: '2002-08-31 20:31:51'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: ' FYI -- These days, Fred Woodward is the creative director at GQ. '
  created: '2002-09-01 22:22:20'
- author:
    name: mart
  body: Here&#39;s a good short article on magazine cover design - and it&#39;s decline.
    I agree with the sentiment, although mags like The New Yorker are still churning
    out wonderful covers week in week out.  <BR><A HREF="http://popcultmag.com/criticalmass/culture/magazines/magazines0.html"
    TARGET="_top">http://popcultmag.com/criticalmass/culture/magazines/magazines0.html</A>
  created: '2002-09-02 05:51:37'
- author:
    name: gmh
    picture: 110452
  body: '&#62;However, for fun, take a trip around the web to the olde guarde of US
    graphic design...  <BR> <BR>&#62;1_ http://www.pentagram.com/  <BR>&#62;2_ http://www.vignelli.com/  <BR>
    <BR>I saw Michael Bierut <A HREF="http://www.aigapgh.org/bierut.html" TARGET="_top">speak
    a couple of years ago</A>, and he said he worked at Vignelli &#40;eventually becoming
    a vice president there&#41; before joining Pentagram. <BR> <BR>&#62;It must be
    an effort to extend their own brand - a kind of visual association. <BR> <BR>Bierut
    said that he uses his &#40;and Pentagram&#39;s&#41; signature style as a kind
    of back up plan. With each project he experiments and tries new things, but knows
    that if nothing new works, he can fall back on a style that he is sure will work.
    He said that this was similar to the way Vignelli works &#40;something to the
    effect of  &#34;If all else fails, put <A HREF="http://www.vignelli.com/poster.htm"
    TARGET="_top">big black stripes</A> across it&#34;&#41;.'
  created: '2002-09-03 01:26:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' Thanks Marc, Mart, and Graham. The last three  <BR>posts of this thread
    are so enlightening, it reminds  <BR>me how much the current comment threads at  <BR>typographica
    suck. Good info. '
  created: '2002-09-03 02:31:58'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' Magazine Lovers, run don&#39;t walk to get STEP inside design. The premier
    issue is on newsstands now, $7.95 US. <BR> <BR>Among the features: <BR> <BR>&#42;
    Q and A w/ Paula Scher &#40;incl. questions about her Pentagram collaborations
    and views on typography&#41; <BR>&#42; A piece on Tobias and Jonathan &#40;Hoefler
    Text and Interstate were chosen by Art Director Robert Valentine for use in STEP.&#41;
    <BR>&#42; an Open Type discussion <BR> <BR>&#43; more. <BR> <BR> <BR>Also, we
    are not the only ones making pud puns. see page 74. <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2002-09-04 20:23:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; A piece on Tobias and Jonathan <BR> <BR>Sorry, BJ, but I found that
    particular article to be pretty horrid. Every few sentences there&#39;s something
    to trigger a guffaw. Those two designers deserve better. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-04 20:27:15'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' &#34;I believe type design is both art and craft. It combines practical
    and aesthetic considerations.&#34; -- Robert Valentine. <BR> <BR>Considering what
    you&#39;ve been writing lately, I&#39;m guessing that this was one of the triggers? '
  created: '2002-09-04 20:33:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Well, not really. There is art in type design - just like anything else
    humans do - it&#39;s unavoidable. On the other hand, for Valentine to actually
    say that in an article of that nature seems trite and cliche. But that wasn&#39;t
    one of the major sore spots for me - I&#39;d have to re-read the thing - which
    I really don&#39;t want to... <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-04 20:46:24'
- author:
    name: paolo
  body: ' BJ, <BR>is STEP a new design magazine? Does it have an URL? I&#39;d like
    to have a look, I guess I&#39;ll have to order it to get it here in Milan. <BR>
    <BR>Jumping to another subject: Hrant, I am glad to tell you that I will very
    probably come to Rome to attend  aTypI. :-&#41; <BR>Do many of you guys on this
    forum will come to Rome too? Tiffany? Kent? Stephen? <BR>I&#39;d love to meet
    you guys, and talk to you in person. <BR>Ciao <BR> <BR>Paolo '
  created: '2002-09-05 01:31:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Great news, Paolo! Try to make it to the gathering on the evening of the
    19th, and you&#39;ll meet bunches of people. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-05 02:49:31'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: Paolo - well the web site hasn&#39;t caught up with the magazine...published
    by Dynamic Graphics. <BR> <BR>you can get more information here <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.dgusa-europe.co.uk/sbseditor.htm"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.dgusa-europe.co.uk/sbseditor.htm</A> <BR><A HREF="http://www.dgusa.com"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.dgusa.com</A>
  created: '2002-09-05 06:05:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: I think the complete offical title is supposed to be <I>STEP inside design</I>
    -- although you&#39;d be forgiven for not guessing it from the logo. It was formerly
    <I>Step-by-Step Graphics</I>. The second issue under the new name and new design
    just arrived in my mailbox. I can&#39;t say that I&#39;m all that taken with the
    new format. But I&#39;ll give it a year to get settled in.  <BR> <BR>I remember
    thinking the piece on Hoefler and Frere-Jones was a bit fluffy. But that may be
    because I&#39;m no longer a general reader in this particular arena. <BR> <BR>Paolo,
    I won&#39;t be coming to Roma. Perhaps you can join us in Vancouver next year?
    <BR> <BR>And, for those keeping score at home, I&#39;ll take this opportunity
    to report that we&#39;ve decided to postpone the release of Whitman until I can
    create the bold and black weights, which, due to a couple of pressing book design
    commissions, looks like it won&#39;t be until January.  <BR> <BR>-- Kent.
  created: '2002-09-05 13:14:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Kent, It&#39;ll be worth the wait. <BR>I&#39;m curious to see what approach
    you&#39;ll take for the darker weights: the Modernist style that&#39;s in fashion
    now, or the &#34;divergent&#34; method like in Carter&#39;s incomrapable Galliard.
    <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-05 15:37:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Kent -- Will you be doing condensed versions  <BR>of <I>Whitman</I>?
  created: '2002-09-05 16:18:49'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: ' What do you mean by &#34;Modernist style <BR>that&#39;s in fashion now&#34;,
    Hrant?  <BR>And elaborate on &#34;divergent method&#34; also, <BR>if you please.
    <BR> <BR>R '
  created: '2002-09-05 23:51:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' The use of a weight axis &#40;internally if not in the released font&#41;
    which has become de rigueur since the increase in sophistication of font editors
    encourages uniformity in style between the various weights. This has certain advantages,
    but suffers from the classic flaw of Modernism: lack of contrast; which just happens
    to be what a Bold is intended for... In contrast &#40;so to speak&#41; Carter
    explains how he &#34;diverged&#34; the darkest weights of Galliard, giving them
    a singular life. I have a copy of an old article that he wrote about the development
    of Galliard, but I can&#39;t remember where it was from... <BR> <BR>BTW, this
    is somewhat parallel to the fact that the copy-paste &#40;which became so easy
    to do with computers&#42;&#41; also encourages uniformity/Modernism, but on a
    more local level. <BR> <BR>&#42; There was actually a primitive form of copy-paste
    even in the foundry days: punchcutters used the same counterpuch to make similar
    parts of different letters, like the counters of &#34;n&#34; and &#34;h&#34;.
    See Smeijers and Paput &#40;personally, if you like ;-&#41; for elaboration. <BR>
    <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-06 00:06:26'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: '&#62; but suffers from the classic flaw of Modernism: lack  <BR>&#62; of
    contrast;  <BR> <BR>I see your point. Just don&#39;t quite agree with this assessment
    <BR>of &#34;Modernism&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#62; an old article that he wrote about
    the development of  <BR>&#62; Galliard, but I can&#39;t remember where it was
    from...  <BR> <BR>If your memory recovers, please tell us. I&#39;d like <BR>to
    have a look at that. <BR> <BR>&#62; punchcutters used the same counterpuch to
    make similar <BR>&#62; parts of different letters, like the counters of &#34;n&#34;  <BR>&#62;
    and &#34;h&#34;.  <BR> <BR>Oh yes. I&#39;ve done my Smeijers.  ;&#41; BTW, a <A
    HREF="http://www.rcapeto.com/etc/punch_anim3.gif" TARGET="_top"> preview</A>.
    <BR> <BR>Thanks.'
  created: '2002-09-06 00:21:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' I&#39;ll dig up the Galliard thing tonight. <BR> <BR>BTW, nice little anim!
    <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-06 00:32:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Hrant, I think the article you&#39;re referring to is from <I>Fine Print</I>
    and is collected in <I>Fine Print on Type</I>, Bigelow, Duensing, Gentry eds.
    &#40;San Francisco: Bedford Arts, 1989&#41;. Although, I see now that this article
    was written by Chuck Bigelow. Maybe you&#39;re referring to a different one. <BR>
    <BR>It&#39;s funny you should mention Galliard in this context, however, because
    I recently had a very long and encouraging conversation with Mike Parker about
    the heavier weights of Whitman and we specifically discussed Matthew&#39;s process
    with Galliard. <BR> <BR>As for how &#34;divergent&#34; my work will be, we&#39;ll
    just have to wait and see. <BR> <BR>Tiffany, I hadn&#39;t really considered condensed
    versions &#40;not being too big on condensed faces myself&#41;. I had always figured
    that when/if I get around to display cuts, they&#39;d be naturally a little narrower;
    but hardly what I would consider condensed, sorry. But who knows. . . <BR> <BR>--
    K.'
  created: '2002-09-06 01:16:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: ' Rodolfo, I second Hrant on that animation: Neat. '
  created: '2002-09-06 01:19:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; not being too big on condensed faces myself <BR> <BR>To me a little
    condensation &#40;I mean a little more than &#34;usual&#34; in a text face - Rotis
    comes to mind as a good target, although its spacing is way too loose&#41; is
    good for readability, but I find width variations in general largely useless in
    a &#42;text&#42; face; you decide what width is best for your design, and that&#39;s
    that. The first axis I would dump in most MM designs is in fact the Width. <BR>
    <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-06 01:26:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Fine Print on Type <BR> <BR>I was thinking maybe you were right&#42;,
    but then I found my copy: &#34;Galliard: a modern revival of the types of Robert
    Granjon&#34;, Matthew Carter, Visible Language XIX 1 Winter 1985. It&#39;s really
    a great article, providing some unique insight. And when you read it, you might
    join those of us who have no doubt whatsoever that Granjon was the best type designer
    we have yet seen &#40;although Gill might have had more raw talent&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>&#42; <BR>I &#42;think&#42; I&#39;ve scoured all the issues of Fine Print,
    and I distinctly remember going through Fine Print on Type at UCLA-SpecialCollections,
    and when I do that I never leave without copies of the interesting parts &#40;even
    if I have to cajole them into exceeding the photocopy limit&#41;, but I don&#39;t
    remember anything about Galliard. Dare I suggest it wasn&#39;t memorable? Pardon
    the candor, but what is it about Bigelow that he never manages to turn me on?
    Maybe it&#39;s me. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-06 03:54:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ' Kent -- Your thoughts equal mine, it was the display version of which I
    had been thinking. I wasn&#39;t thinking of anything extreme, simply tighter,
    more clean and more crisp. '
  created: '2002-09-06 04:38:33'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: You&#39;re right, Hrant. I reread the Bigelow article on Galliard and it wasn&#39;t
    the treasure that one might have hoped. He does make some interesting observations
    and quotes a little Carter. But the <I>Visible Language</I> article sounds infinitely
    more interesting -- being from Carter himself and all that. Who publishes <I>VL</I>?
    Do you know where I might get a copy? <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2002-09-06 19:32:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Who publishes VL? <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.id.iit.edu/visiblelanguage/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.id.iit.edu/visiblelanguage/</A> <BR> <BR>&#62; Do you
    know where I might get a copy? <BR> <BR>You can buy back issues, or do an ILL
    from a good library. You&#39;ve been planning that 100-mile trip for a while now
    - do it before the weather gets bad.  ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-09-06 19:42:05'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: ' Hrant: <BR> <BR>&#62; what is it about Bigelow that he never manages <BR>&#62;
    to turn me on?  <BR> <BR>Does this give us a clue on the origins of MasLucida?  ;&#41; '
  created: '2002-09-06 19:56:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Yes it does!  :-&#41; <BR>MasLucida &#40;a set of structures, not a font&#41;
    was based on Lucida because Lucida has very &#34;elemental&#34; letterforms, so
    they didn&#39;t need much change in order to look like &#42;structures&#42;, like
    I wanted. But I don&#39;t think I&#39;m the only one who thinks that a &#42;usable&#42;
    font must not look so &#34;structural&#34;. By the way, on the way from Lucida
    to MasLucida I incorporated certain &#34;phase one&#34; changes to Lucida, in
    order to make it more bookish, and as a result facilitate a comparison to MasLucida&#39;
    intentions. Besides increasing the extenders and tightening the spacing &#40;I
    &#42;think&#42; - it&#39;s been a while&#41;, I added a bicameral &#34;g&#34;:
    it wasn&#39;t easy to get it to feel right, but except for a slightly large head
    that needs to be scaled smaller to the left, I think it provides for a better
    solution than the original mono &#34;g&#34;. <BR> <BR>Maybe one thing that bugs
    me is the scope of the Lucida megafamily: it really seems too strict, formally
    speaking. Some of the constituent fonts look like they&#39;ve been inbred just
    a &#42;bit&#42; too closely to become healthy adults... <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-06 20:09:03'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: interesting reading/site <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://popcultmag.com/criticalmass/culture/magazines/magazines0.html"
    TARGET="_top">http://popcultmag.com/criticalmass/culture/magazines/magazines0.html</A>
    <BR> <BR>via Kaliber 10,000&deg;
  created: '2002-09-20 23:12:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Paolo, nice meeting you in Rome! <BR>I hope the conference was useful to
    you. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-09-25 22:59:26'
date: '2002-08-16 12:07:57'
title: Archive through September 25, 2002
...
