---
author:
  name: Diner
  picture: 110407
body: ' Recently I&#39;ve received a flurry of e-mails from customers who are running
  Mac OSX and Photoshop that claim none of the fonts work in Photoshop however they
  work in many other applications. <BR> <BR>What gives? <BR>Stuart :D '
comments:
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Do you know if they&#39;re using a Classic version of  <BR>Photoshop? &#40;In
    other words, are they running  <BR>Photoshop under Classic mode?&#41; '
  created: '2002-12-05 18:50:21'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: ' Version 5.5 - Yes, most likely in Classic mode. '
  created: '2002-12-05 21:09:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' I haven&#39;t heard of any problems with Photoshop in  <BR>particular, however
    using a given font in both Classic  <BR>and OS X is not always intuitive--but
    it&#39;s easy enough  <BR>to figure out. <BR> <BR>In short, it is possible to
    activate a font in OS  <BR>X and have it NOT be active in Classic. You have to  <BR>think
    of these as two separate operating systems  <BR>&#40;because they are&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>Make sure your customers are activating the font  <BR>in both operating systems
    if they&#39;re using the font in <BR>both Classic and OS X apps. <BR> <BR>Hope
    this helps. '
  created: '2002-12-05 22:20:18'
- author:
    name: selfbuildtype
    picture: 110493
  body: 'I have had this problem also. A PS type 1 font generated with Fog and installed
    on OS10.2.4 appears in TextEdit but not at all in Illustrator or Photoshop &#40;v7
    OSX native&#41;. Anybody else had any experience of this issue? <BR> <BR>Looks
    like a few people have had problems: <BR>http://www.myfonts.com/FontForums/read.php?f=6&amp;i=41&amp;t=41'
  created: '2003-03-27 22:45:10'
date: '2002-12-05 17:26:36'
title: Font problems with OSX and Photoshop
...
