---
author:
  name: puffinry
body: Interesting <a href="http://film.guardian.co.uk/features/featurepages/0%2C4120%2C1177734%2C00.html">article</a>
  in today&#x2019;s Guardian about Kubrick
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Thanks for the link Robin: that is a fascinating article. The author, Jon
    Ronson, also wrote one of the most interesting, disturbing yet hilarious books
    I read last year: <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0330375466/qid=1080414383/sr=1-1/ref=sr_1_1/104-9071209-7311916?v=glance&amp;s=books"><i>Them.</i></a>'
  created: '2004-03-27 19:06:06'
- author:
    name: dirk_brandts
  body: It&#39;s easy but surprising to overlook the extent to which Kubrick has contributed
    to my own visual aesthetic. I&#39;ve recommended display-sized Futura to two separate
    clients in the last 6 months, and pounded one marketing manager with a femur.
  created: '2004-03-30 09:06:57'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: 'John Hudson: I have seen this book, and it really caught my eye, is it worth
    the read? <BR>IS it REALLY disturbing &#40;because I cant handle such&#41;. A
    cool concept though.'
  created: '2004-03-30 18:22:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Them</i> is more funny than disturbing, and probably also more sad. I really
    recommend it.
  created: '2004-03-30 20:06:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: That WAS an amazing article. It also proves the point that the truly talented
    visual communicators&#42; have the desire for precision in all aspects of their
    lives. <BR> <BR>AND I no longer feel guilty about liking Futura.  <BR> <BR>&#42;
    time-tested through history
  created: '2004-03-30 23:16:46'
date: '2004-03-27 13:42:55'
title: Stanley Kubrick, typophile
...
