---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: Ok typophilers. Here&#39;s a question. I&#39;m digging all over now, even as
  I type. But then I realized that perhaps someone here might be able to help me find
  a supplier. <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: There&#39;s a brand of perfume with a corset. I can&#39;t remember if it&#39;s
    Gaultier, or something else. Go to Sephora. BTW, it sounds like doing this project
    creatively might required the acquisition of stronger taste, or at least a stronger
    stomach! You can&#39;t get creative if you&#39;re not happy. Unless you&#39;re
    Goya or something. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-20 21:20:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Although Gaultier does have perfume bottles with corsets, they&#39;re just
    the way the glass is shaped. <BR>The one I was really thinking of is actually
    a champagne: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.kodiakwines.com/gaultier.asp" target="_blank">http://www.kodiakwines.com/gaultier.asp</a>
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-20 22:45:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You are so right Hrant. I&#39;m not &#34;really&#34; the type to do this sort
    of thing. But, we are only in the conceptual stage, and as much as I hate to Admit
    this sort of thing, this client has been known to flake. <BR> <BR>That said. I
    have seen this wine bottle and I&#39;ve the Gaultier parfum as well. The wind
    bottle is closer to the idea.
  created: '2003-06-20 22:53:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I&#39;m not &#34;really&#34; the type to do this sort of thing. <BR>
    <BR>Well, you don&#39;t have to model the thing yourself, do you?! :-&#41; Give
    yourself enough credit, I mean in adapting to the client. Maybe you could do a
    smart parody of the idea? <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Hmmm, haircare... <BR>Hey you know
    those &#34;butterfly&#34; hair clasps? What if it was something like that squeezing
    the bottle instead? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-20 23:06:42'
- author:
    name: PYMadlon
    picture: 110349
  body: 'A bit off-topic, but: be careful how much you talk about flaking clients
    here -- oh, I just got it... &#34;flake,&#34; &#34;haircare!&#34; HA! -- because
    I find that the search engines pick up our jabber pretty quickly. The last thing
    you might want is for a potential client to tap your name into google and find
    you bad-mouthing a client &#40;though your comment wasn&#39;t particularly harsh.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Or they might just admire your candor.'
  created: '2003-06-21 04:24:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: :^O <BR> <BR>Paul. The flake remark was more of a pun. But you&#39;re right.
    Especially as this is a growth client, or rather a client with potential.  <BR>
    <BR>:^/
  created: '2003-06-23 17:15:45'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: 'corset looking purses have been around awhile.  <BR> <BR>but in any case
    - sure the big thing is the sleazy yucko corsets, but remember even Cinderella
    worn an endo-corset thing. think of Watteau paintings...it can be very innocent
    and romantic in shades of Crabtree &amp; Evelyn.  '
  created: '2003-06-23 20:19:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Tanya -- I&#39;m with you. Beautiful idea. I&#39;m really interested, for
    one approach, in using Misprinted Type&#39;s Porcelain or Selfish.
  created: '2003-06-23 21:33:40'
date: '2003-06-20 19:52:07'
title: Packaging for Haircare
...
