---
author:
  name: figbash_acrobat
  picture: 110172
body: Does anyone have any tips on how you can make type &#40;the finished product
  that is&#41; look more soft/natural/3D and less harsh/digital/2D? I think most of
  what I&#39;m getting at is the difference between old books and new ones. I&#39;ve
  had some limited success by printing, scanning, and reprinting, but you can only
  do that so much. Maybe there&#39;s certain kinds of paper that bleed slightly? <BR>
  <BR>Sorry if this isn&#39;t a very clear question... it&#39;s hard to describe what
  I have in mind. I just don&#39;t always like the ultra-crisp way type looks laser-printed
  on white paper.
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: use newsprint?
  created: '2004-03-30 20:55:41'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: 'You&#39;re referring to a more tactile look in a final produced piece of
    artwork . . . <BR> <BR>One trick is to adjust the level of contrast of the text
    over its surface so instead of 100% black over 100% white, try 95% Dark Brown
    over 90% Ivory. <BR> <BR>Another trick is selecting fonts that already have a
    printed look to them, one comes to mind by Mark Simonson is here: <a href="http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/metallophilesp8.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/metallophilesp8.html</a> <BR>
    <BR>Stuart :D'
  created: '2004-03-30 21:20:55'
- author:
    name: figbash_acrobat
    picture: 110172
  body: 'I&#39;ll try that sometime... although one problem is I don&#39;t have easy
    access to a color printer. But I suppose 95% gray would have a similar effect.
    And I&#39;ll also try newsprint, or just rougher paper in general &#40;maybe I
    should stop by an art supply store&#41;.  <BR> <BR>And I really like that Metallophile
    font... it&#39;s interesting he mentioned Futura on that page: I really can&#39;t
    abide Futura when it&#39;s ultra-precise looking &#40;like on glossy paper&#41;.
    But I&#39;ve seen older use it  bookswhere it&#39;s a lot more tactile, as you
    say, and it looks really nice.'
  created: '2004-03-30 21:53:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Instead of 100% black for type, how about a mixture of 50/50/50/50 &#40;that&#39;s
    a guess&#41;. That could screw up hairlines on serif type, even without mis-registration.  <BR>
    <BR>You could combine this technique with &#34;graded&#34; fonts such as Poynter
    Oldstyle &#40;from the Bureau&#41;, one version in 100% black on one layer, another,
    heavier version in 50/50/50/0 on a back layer. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve designed several
    faces that incorporate stylized distress that mimics the effect of letterpress
    type -- Brown, Paradigm, Worldwide, Walburn. &#40;All on view at shinntype.com.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>There is a difference between stylized distress and raw, random distress:
    classic in this genre is Poliphilus. More recently Founder&#39;s Caslon. <BR>
    <BR>And finally, why not use real letterpress?'
  created: '2004-03-30 22:09:11'
- author:
    name: figbash_acrobat
    picture: 110172
  body: Do people still use letterpress? I had assumed &#40;without much evidence&#41;
    it was more or less history. <BR> <BR>I like the 50/50/50/50 idea -- I bet that
    would work.
  created: '2004-03-31 03:09:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Physical things like letterpress get obsolete much, much slower than something
    like a font format! :-&#41; More than <i>use</i>, however, most people who use
    letterpress these days are in fact <i>abusing</i> it. They use its tactile quality
    as a reactionary escapism from the coldness of the digital world. Valid feelings,
    but spawning invalid expressions. If this all sounds obscure &#40;it would have
    to me about 1.5 years ago&#41;, it just means you have to get to know letterpress
    first-hand, and see the contemporary conflict between sensationalism versus substance
    evolving. It causes things like Tiffany &amp; Co. to commission a letterpess-looking
    version of their logotype for friggin&#39; $10,000 &#40;never mind that it will
    generally be applied with foil stamping&#41;. How do I loathe thee - let me count
    the ways... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-31 03:28:52'
- author:
    name: emilie
    picture: 110079
  body: About letterpress being history, this reminds me.  <BR> <BR>My teacher said
    we have one guy somewhere in Montreal who&#39;s around 70 and still does letterpress
    with his machine. Though the technician who could fix the machine died recently
    so if the machine breaks, we&#39;re all pooped. It&#39;s kind of ironic when you
    think about it...
  created: '2004-04-07 01:54:58'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: You will find there are MANY people still using letter press. One very commun
    use of it still &#40;aside from its intended use&#41; is die-cutting things. and
    variable number prints and such... <BR>&#40;over-simplified&#41; <BR> <BR>check
    out <a href="http://www.briarpress.org" target="_blank">www.briarpress.org</a>
    for more information. <BR> <BR>Hildebrant.
  created: '2004-04-07 02:32:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '&#34;Do people still use letterpress?&#34; <BR> <BR>I used to work as a web
    designer along side a huge working letterpress: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.blincpublishing.com"
    target="_blank">http://www.blincpublishing.com</a> <BR> <BR>It was a nice mix
    of technologies. <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-07 15:14:53'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: 'There are still quite a few people printing lettrpress in a private press
    environmnet. A great many of them doing very good work. As Hrant has stated: some
    doing awful work by over-impressing, and some doing the same by attempting to
    kiss-impress and under-ink. <BR> <BR>I am not aware of anyone successfully offering
    letterpress commercially in Canada, other than in the capacity of numbering and
    perfing. <BR> <BR>I occasionally conduct workshops in letterpress and in typecutting.
    The workshop I instructed at the ATypi conference in Vancouver last Fall had only
    one attendee . . .  from Australia. <BR> <BR>I am instructing a Chicago man for
    a few days at my workshop in May in punch and matrix cutting. <BR> <BR>Yesterday
    a man from Washington state called me and we talked at length about a book he
    is having letterpressed at Steinhour Press using polymer plates. The book is a
    good size; around 100 pages. He was looking for a type that looked like it had
    letterpess roots, and was considering Lanston Type Co.&#39;s Metropolitan. &#40;Since
    Metropolitan was had digitized directly from the Lanston patterns, I felt that
    it was as good a choice as any&#41;.  <BR> <BR>I am in the midst of a personal
    project: the limited edition printing of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. I&#39;ve
    cut a new metal type for the book. I am anticipating making about 100 or so copies.
    <BR> <BR>In my part of the world there are two very fine letterpress printers:
    Barbarian Press and Heavenly Monkey Press, both very active. <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer
    <BR> <BR>   <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-07 17:13:09'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: I believe &#40;but I may be mistaken&#41; that Glenn Goluska at the Imprimerie
    Dromadaire in Montreal is still using a letterpress for printing type. He may
    be the person you are refering to Emilie &#40;although I don&#39;t think that
    he is 70 yet...&#41;
  created: '2004-04-08 03:49:11'
- author:
    name: emilie
    picture: 110079
  body: It might be, the story went through a few people I think so it probably got
    distorted =&#41; The younger the better, I really hope this gets passed on locally.
    <BR> <BR>What do you do in Montreal? I believe your family name sounds familiar
    to me but I&#39;m not sure! <BR> <BR>Em
  created: '2004-04-08 03:58:07'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: Here, take a look at this link! <BR><a href="http://www.aaupmontreal04.com/event_glenn.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.aaupmontreal04.com/event_glenn.html</a> <BR> <BR>There
    are also some other interesting events on the agenda &#40;like the Quark vs InDesign
    panel&#41; and it is all taking place in Montr
  created: '2004-04-08 14:19:36'
- author:
    name: emilie
    picture: 110079
  body: Hey cool link! That&#39;s weird I didn&#39;t even hear of this at UQAM. Though
    I think I did hear that Denis was going to do a conference so it&#39;s probably
    this one. The rare books at McGill seems to be really interesting too.  <BR> <BR>What&#39;s
    the AAUP exactly? <BR> <BR>Hmm, I&#39;m getting out of uni in 3 weeks and my favorite
    areas for the past two years have been corporate and books. Any openings? =&#41;
  created: '2004-04-08 19:34:59'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: '&#62; What&#39;s the AAUP exactly? <BR> <BR>AAUP is the Association of American
    University Presses. They have a general meeting every year, and this year McGill-Queen&#39;s
    in Montreal is the host. I am not sure if the whole event is open to the public
    however...I was told that space was limited and they would let me know if I could
    attend. '
  created: '2004-04-09 00:04:16'
date: '2004-03-30 20:31:49'
title: 3D nostalgia
...
