---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' Need help please finding  athletic shirt type font. blocky Slab serif scanned
  from an abercrombie tshirt. <BR> <BR>The font is distressed, but if not available
  distressed, I will try to work around that. <BR> <BR>Thanks for your help <BR> <BR>Susan '
comments:
- author:
    name: kenmond
  body: 'I think I got exactly the answers you need. The fonts you are looking for
    are often overlooked because they are just so common and not considered &#34;high
    design&#34; anyway, here is my list &#40;I design athletic apparel&#41;: <BR>
    <BR>Slab Serif <BR> <BR>Athletic &#40;cheap looking....very block like&#41; Be
    sure to space this one manually&#41; <BR>Collegiate &#40;complicated outlined
    font&#41; <BR> <BR>The following are thinner and almost identical &#40;I use Yearbook
    the most&#41; <BR>Ivy League: the only one without the &#34;middle V&#34; on the
    &#34;M&#34; touching the baseline &#40;this is great for designs with outlines
    or strokes as the outline won&#39;t descend beneath the baseline&#41; <BR>Princetown
    <BR>Yearbook <BR>College <BR>Letterman &#40;roughened version&#41; <BR> <BR>Sans
    Serif: <BR>ITC Machine &#40;I use this one a lot&#41; <BR>ITC Flat Iron <BR> <BR>Related,
    but not exactly athletic: <BR> <BR>City <BR>Aachen <BR> <BR>For scripts, I recommend:
    <BR> <BR>Formal <BR>Brush Script is the more common script <BR> <BR>Obscure, but
    worth it: <BR>Hoboken High &#40;two faces, serif and non-serif; can be found at
    lineto.com: expensive&#41; <BR> <BR>This is about all I know in terms of these
    fonts. There could be more, but this is what I use. <BR> <BR>If you need anymore
    help, email me <a href="mailto:Kmond@hotmail.com">Kmond@hotmail.com</a>. Put something
    in the subject that let&#39;s me know it&#39;s not spam'
  created: '2003-01-18 22:09:54'
- author:
    name: flow14
    picture: 110569
  body: 'Distressed patterns are usually created by overlaying  <BR>a pattern on your
    final design. If you&#39;re working in <BR> FreeHand, for example, you import
    a bitmap or <BR> greyscale tiff, make it transparent and voila, you&#39;re <BR>
    distressed. <BR> <BR>Here&#39;s a link to a few distressed files: <BR><a href="http://www.screenprinters.net/downloads/"
    target="_blank">http://www.screenprinters.net/downloads/</a> <BR>&#40;scroll down
    about 1/2 or 3/4 of the way down <BR>the page.&#41;'
  created: '2003-01-20 01:09:06'
date: '2002-12-10 19:38:07'
title: '&#40;x&#41; Athletic shirt font-distressed'
...
