---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: 'I&#39;ve noticed that certain apps ignore certain kerning pairs, and there
  doesn&#39;t seem to be much rhyme or reason to it. For example, Photoshop doesn&#39;t
  apply kerns involving the trademark or the hyphen &#40;although it does kern the
  emdash&#41;, while Word is pretty good except a negative kern of 250 is turned into
  -125 for my emdash-emdash sequence! I assume InDesign for example doesn&#39;t pull
  any such stunts, but since fonts can be used in any app I&#39;m wondering if: <BR>1&#41;
  There are lists of ignored pairs somewhere, and/or some formal rationale. <BR>2&#41;
  There&#39;s a work-around, like maybe using Unicode? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Assuming it&#39;s OpenType or TrueType what does Font Validator think of
    the font? A recent font we tested had this error reported by FontVal... <BR> <BR>Kern
    <BR>E1610 <BR> The kerning value is invalid  <BR> kern pair[174]: left id = 696,
    right id = 812, value = -30056 <BR> <BR>Perhaps Word has a max value you&#39;re
    running into. <BR> <BR>Si'
  created: '2004-04-01 00:20:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Yes, it&#39;s TT. <BR> <BR>&#62; Font Validator <BR> <BR>Oh, I&#39;ll try
    that. <BR>Where do I get it again? <BR> <BR>&#62; E1610 <BR>&#62; The kerning
    value is invalid  <BR>&#62; kern pair[174]: left id = 696, right id = 812, value
    = -30056 <BR> <BR>How does one read that? <BR> <BR>BTW, guess what: I just tried
    to reproduce the problem, but couldn&#39;t...  :-/ <BR> <BR>So assuming that was
    a fluke and Word doesn&#39;t ignore any kerns after all &#40;at least not when
    it&#39;s in a good mood&#41;, there&#39;s still the issue of Photoshop, and maybe
    other apps too, like Flash. Is there a list of characters whose kerns are ignored
    in what app? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-01 00:31:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Hi, <BR> <BR>Off-list someone has reported that there seems to be a more serious
    problem with Word&#39;s use of FL generated kern tables. We&#39;re looking into
    it. <BR> <BR>FontVal - <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/validator/default.htm"
    target="_blank">http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/validator/default.htm</a>
    <BR> <BR>Cheers, Si
  created: '2004-04-01 02:30:10'
- author:
    name: peterc
  body: Can i novice ask what this Font Validor is to be used for? Just downloaded
    and testet a random opentype, got a xml and xsl file, but what is this to be used
    for? <BR> <BR>Maybe a stupid question.....
  created: '2004-04-02 10:45:30'
- author:
    name: wolaka
  body: 'I am a beginning FontLab user, and haven&#39;t spent too much time kerning
    the typeface I&#39;m working on, but even the &#34;automatic&#34; kerning is lost
    in Freehand MX. Specifically, the S always overlaps an E or a U that follows it.
    What I find strange is that this doesn&#39;t happen in Flash &#40;or any other
    apps I use&#41;. It would seem like all the Macromedia programs would handle type
    similarly, or that between the two programs, Freehand would have better kerning. '
  created: '2004-04-13 17:39:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '[moved]'
  created: '2004-04-13 17:48:02'
date: '2004-03-31 19:15:02'
title: Selective Ignorance of Kerns
...
