---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' anyone could bring the very sensitive curves from ikarus back to typography
  soft instead of those ugly splines that give every typefaces the look to have been
  drawn on computer and not with a human hand ? <BR>Or maybe is it some really, really
  nice drawing soft that are using those kind of curves nowaday ? <BR>The curves I
  am talking about are the one using in some industrial design soft or that are using
  the REAL beziers curves, not the one so-called b&eacute;ziers you get in Adobe illustrator,
  Freehand, fontlab or fontographer'
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' There are indeed different kinds of beziers &#40;even different ones in
    PS vs TT&#41;. What kind does Ikarus use? <BR> <BR>But anyway, I have to ask:
    maybe it&#39;s time to rise above handwriting? <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-12-11 15:43:41'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' there is something to be said for nice handwriting, calligraphy, etc. but
    i think it&#39;s a little dishonest to use a computer to create and print fonts
    that appear to be written by hand. my personal rule of thumb is that if i want
    something that looks like handwriting, i bloody well write it with my hand. is
    that what you mean by &#34;rising above&#34; hrant? i guess i should say i&#39;m
    not totally opposed to those sorts of fonts, i just don&#39;t use them a whole
    lot. no ban handwriting fonts campaign. ha. <BR>julien- don&#39;t you find any
    beauty at all in industrial aesthetics? there is something beautiful about din,
    for example, even though it&#39;s rigid, boring, and lacking in any flamboyance,
    that&#39;s what is so cool about it. but now i have to go check out ikarus. '
  created: '2002-12-11 16:01:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ' Isaac -- so you only use modern and transitional &#40;some&#41; typefaces
    when you need a serif??  <BR> <BR>Hrant -- I was waiting for that comment. ;&not;&#41; '
  created: '2002-12-11 16:57:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' So I&#39;m becoming predictable...  :-&#40; <BR> <BR>Chirographic &#40;hand-based&#41;
    type just feels wrong. Feelings are plenty for oneself, but other people like
    to hear &#42;reasons&#42;. Fortunately in the past two months I&#39;ve developed
    an armada of reasons &#40;based on linguistics, reading theory, as well as the
    work of Dwiggins and others&#41;, and one day I will write a full article to put
    the regressive hand-mongers in their place. Real quick: chirographic type is dysfunctional
    because: it promotes excessive, literal, superficial modularity; misuses the cartesian
    space &#40;differently in each dimension&#41;; and creates a detrimental relationship
    between the two edges of the letterform body &#40;in opposite to Notan, the core
    principle of design&#41;. Run for it Luddites, your days are numbered &#40;perhaps
    even by definition&#41;... <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-12-11 18:04:09'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: 'regressive hand-mongers? do you do freelance stand-up? that is hilarious.
    i&#39;m with you, even if i don&#39;t understand half of what you say. please
    write that article. i&#39;m holding my breath. <BR> <BR>&#62;so you only use modern
    and transitional &#40;some&#41; typefaces when you need a serif? <BR> <BR>ok,
    i left myself open for that one. actually, i generally avoid serif fonts when
    possible. i&#39;m down with jan and the neue typographie boys when it comes to
    that. serifs are so... ostentatious. i&#39;m half-joking here. i know jan t. refuted
    his hard-line stance later on, and i know most of you will argue &#40;i know hrant
    will for sure&#41; that sans faces are too hard to read in large bodies, but i
    disagree anyway. phillip meggs&#39; &#34;history of graphic design&#34; is set
    entirely in helvetica &#40;take it easy, hhp&#41;, and at least two of his other
    books are set in univers &#40;go, univers, go!&#41;, and they read perfectly fine.
    the magazine i&#39;m interning at uses meta. trendy, i know, but it works better
    than many serif text faces would. i don&#39;t hate serifs. i dig mrs. eaves, but
    i do prefer a more modern approach. in fact, i have more than a passing sympathy
    for herbert bayer&#39;s idea that we don&#39;t even need upper case letters, as
    you may have noticed. but i&#39;m no zealot. i even find myself in search of appropriate
    &#40;gulp&#41; script fonts once in awhile. i wish i could use them like vaughn
    oliver does. <BR> <BR>so let&#39;s argue: when does one <I>need</I> a serif font?
    i think maybe it&#39;s all in the aesthetics, and when it comes to that, aren&#39;t
    your aesthetics determined by your ethics? <BR> <BR>did i just use italics? i
    need to go wash my hands.'
  created: '2002-12-12 02:41:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Bayer was a fundamentalist. Fine for rousing rabble, lousy for Craft. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; i do prefer a more modern approach <BR> <BR>Well yes, serifs do impart
    a &#34;stodgy&#34; feel, but mostly to designers: for regular readers any such
    effect is probably small. And serifs most certainly improve readability. So if
    you&#39;re setting a book not intended for idealistic Bauhaus-infected designers,
    use a serif face. If it helps, use one of the recent &#34;honest&#34; Latin-slab
    faces, like FF Zine, Parkinson&#39;s Azusa, Patria &#40;not released yet&#41;,
    etc. <BR> <BR>Italic? A necessary evil. Just make it close to the roman, like
    no rediculous descending &#34;f&#34;. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-12-12 02:59:50'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' actually, i&#39;ve seen some descending f&#39;s that rock. base nine is
    used for the cartoon network&#39;s cartoon cartoon friday logo. but i know what
    you mean. <BR> <BR>&#34;honest&#34; latin-slabs? are you poking fun at me? <BR>
    <BR>i just realized there&#39;s an example of what i&#39;m talking about in these
    forums. the id post for the mercedes-benz font. head over there and look at it.
    do you think benz would use univers in place of that font? i don&#39;t think so,
    but why not? because they&#39;re trying to attract snobs, and to do that they
    use a snobby font. it&#39;s elitism. i admit that my opinion is based in some
    measure on rabble rousing, but i&#39;m not a sans snob either. i used mrs. eaves
    &#40;does it seem like i&#39;m obsessed with ms. licko here? i&#39;m not, really&#41;
    for a birth announcement i did for my sister recently, but only because my wife
    was art directing. and i&#39;m sure my sister wouldn&#39;t have gone for any kind
    of funky stunt i would have pulled. <BR> <BR>serifs improve readability, but only
    if that&#39;s what you&#39;re used to reading. like rudy van der lans said, you
    read best what you read the most. if you read mostly elliot earls posters &#40;heaven
    help you&#41;, then i guess that&#39;s what you&#39;d be comfortable with. so
    we read serif fonts better because that&#39;s what is used most often for body
    copy, and we use serif fonts for body copy because that&#39;s what we read best. '
  created: '2002-12-12 03:26:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: ' Getting back to Julien&#39;s question... <BR> <BR>FontLab 4.5 has a &#34;sketch&#34;
    mode that is supposed to emulate the Ikarus drawing method. I&#39;ve played around
    with it a bit, but I don&#39;t know how close it is to the original since I&#39;ve
    never used the Ikarus software. It does feel a bit more direct than working with
    Beziers. '
  created: '2002-12-12 04:18:12'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'Ikarus never used Bezier curves. It used what are called Hermite splines:
    essentially concatenated circular arcs with on-curve control handles. There are
    <A HREF="http://mathworld.wolfram.com/Spline.html" TARGET="_top">many different
    kinds of spline curves.</A> <BR> <BR>FontLab&#39;s sketch mode doesn&#39;t use
    genuine Hermite splines. It uses some other kind of spline to approximate their
    behavior. The difference is subtle but noticeable. A side effect is that you cannot
    import Ikarus IK data into FontLab. You can download the latest FontLab demo for
    Mac <A HREF="http://www.fontlab.ch/downloads/FL45MacDemo.hqx" TARGET="_top">here</A>
    or get the Windows version <A HREF="http://www.fontlab.ch/downloads/FL4WinDemo.exe"
    TARGET="_top">here</A>.  <BR> <BR>To use actual Hermite splines, you need Ikarus
    or its successor: what used to be called Ikarus is now reincarnated as DTL IkarusMaster,
    part of their <A HREF="http://www.fontmaster.nl" TARGET="_top">FontMaster</A>
    package. You can also download Mac or PC <A HREF="http://www.fontmaster.nl/DemoDownloads.html"
    TARGET="_top">demo versions</A> of it as well. Be aware that whereas the full
    FontLab package will run you about $600 &#40;or $550 without the printed manual&#41;,
    FontMaster is upwards of $2000. I spent some time evaluating FM, and so far I
    think FontLab is the better choice. I would encourage you to first play with its
    Sketch mode and see if that gives you back the control that you have missed. <BR>
    <BR> I recommend FontMaster <I>only</I> if you have a lot of IK data sitting around,
    or if you prefer its audit or blend routines to FL. <BR> <BR>I am still searching
    for tools that aren&#39;t tied down to the outline paradigm. Stroke-based font
    development offers so many advantages for certain kinds of lettering, especially
    when it comes to multiple weights. The only packages that implement it thoroughly
    are the unfortunately non-GUI Metafont and some <A HREF="http://www.fontworks.com/product_gaiji.html"
    TARGET="_top">rather specialized Japanese packages</A>. <BR> <BR>In addition to
    implementing the pen metaphor &#40;dare I say &#34;moving front&#34;&#41; there
    is also the punchcutting metaphor. While several digital fonts have made use of
    punchcutting traditions in guiding their development, I wonder how a modern digital
    tool might more accurately model those practices, or if doing so would be of any
    use to a currently practicing type designer.'
  created: '2002-12-12 05:44:08'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: duplicate post, sorry, please remove :-&#41;
  created: '2002-12-12 05:45:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; &#34;honest&#34; latin-slabs? are you poking fun at me? <BR> <BR>No,
    although &#34;latin-slab&#34; could be classified as a Hrantism. It means slab
    serifs that are angled, or Latin serifs that are sheared, depending on how you
    look at it. Like this: <BR><A HREF="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/parkinson/azuza/medium/windows-postscript/84084/character/006B/CP2/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/parkinson/azuza/medium/windows-postscript/84084/character/006B/CP2/</A>
    <BR> <BR>To me such serifs tend to avoid the mechanical feel of slabs as well
    as the haughtiness of Latins, conveying a certain austerity, which translates
    to honesty. <BR> <BR>&#62; serifs improve readability, but only if that&#39;s
    what you&#39;re used to reading <BR> <BR>No way, dude. Don&#39;t believe the hype.
    <BR> <BR>Familiarity is only half the story &#40;and it&#39;s not even properly
    understood&#41;. The other half is the human reading &#34;handware&#34;, and even
    a cursory considering of empirical as well as anecdotal evidence clearly shows
    how important serifs are in readability. <BR> <BR>&#62; Stroke-based font development
    offers so <BR>&#62; many advantages for certain kinds of lettering <BR> <BR>Yeah,
    regressive display designs...  :-/ <BR> <BR>The moving front violates Notan, the
    central priciple of Design. And the smaller the text, the greater the dysfunction
    of the front. Just look at the outlines of the text fonts of true masters such
    as Carter, Tracy and Dwiggins. The front is a succubus, and she will bite you
    in the end &#40;not in a good way either&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-12-12 06:59:02'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'Hrant, please understand that I&#39;m talking in terms of design <I>tools</I>
    and not in terms of design itself.  <BR> <BR>The &#34;moving front&#34; idea is
    an accurate, solid model for representing most Latin lettering before type arrived.
    When type appeared, lettershapes started to reflect the physical limitations and
    artifacts of punchcutting, which in turn became integral to later designs. These
    serifed designs became the order of the day throughout the Latin-script world
    by the mid-20th century, and people became accustomed to them and grew to prefer
    them.  <BR> <BR>They read them best, and they read them most, one might say. :-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Still, there are plenty of recent designs that are based more directly
    on calligraphy than on later oldstyle and transitional type. Palatino comes to
    mind, and it just happens to be the most pirated face in the world. Between 1978
    and 1996, students of Gerrit Noordzij &#40;the person Hrant has lately fallen
    into a pattern of aspiring to disagree with... who proposed the moving front model&#41;
    output over 120 designs, most of whch are being sold commercially. The list of
    students includes just about every Dutch type designer who&#39;s done business
    in the past twenty years or so. And they&#39;re not all tied to this front metaphor
    either: his students are independent thinkers in their own right, which I would
    think was his goal all along. <BR> <BR>Even not-so-purely-calligraphic type designs
    ultimately derive from writing as well, and in most cases broad-nib-pen writing.
    But I also asked about other kinds of tools, particularly based on punchcutting
    metaphors. &#40;Because I just happened to have recently finished <I>Counterpunch</I>
    which has been the most enthralling book I&#39;ve read in years.&#41;  <BR> <BR>You
    can use more than one tool, Hrant. It&#39;s OK. You&#39;re allowed. :-&#41; And
    please also understand that I&#39;m not interested in modeling simple, unmodulated
    pen strokes. That&#39;s been done and is only useful up to a point, and certainly
    not adequate for most type design.  <BR> <BR>More complexity can be automated.
    The fact that no one has yet done so doesn&#39;t negate the possibility, and such
    tools are the kinds I am interested in. Two graphics packages, namely Microsoft
    Visio and Creature House Expression formerly from Fractal Design, offer object
    models &#40;but as yet no built-in primitives&#41; for a more powerful kind of
    stroke-based vector drawing. Expression is more readily suited to this than Visio,
    but Visio could be put to similar use with some custom shape programming. You
    can make a shape scale uniformly in Visio, but you can also make it behave more
    complexly, e.g. stretching a line of icons to add more icons, or changing its
    width resulting in the icons scaling uniformly and possibly reducing in number.
    <BR> <BR>The next time I talk about this, it will be with pictures, and not on
    someone else&#39;s time. &#40;Apologies to Julien.&#41; <BR> <BR>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    <BR>&#91;Jared, please let me use hr tags on typophile!&#93; <BR> <BR>Back to
    Ikarus: Julien, I would be curious to hear <I>your</I> opinions as an Ikarus user
    regarding how well FontLab&#39;s sketch mode suits your needs. I&#39;m not accustomed
    to drawing in Ikarus, but I can say that I have occasionally used the Sketch mode
    to make fine outline adjustments to letters I found for whatever reason unsatisfying,
    and I really enjoyed using it. It was much easier to adjust curves with it. I
    still prefer Beziers for corners and tangents, and I&#39;m still not keen on the
    idea of converting from one kind of outline to another while still in the design
    phase.'
  created: '2002-12-15 00:44:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I&#39;m talking in terms of design tools and not in terms of design
    itself. <BR> <BR>But the tools strongly guide the results &#40;as much as that
    hurts our control-drunk egos&#41;. The moving front is indeed good for understanding
    the lettering of the past, it&#39;s in fact also good for understanding much actual
    type &#40;although in the same way that a breathalizer is good for understanding
    why that car crashed happened... :-&#41;. As you said, there are very many GN
    disciples who have made a living making chirographic &#40;hand-based&#41; type.
    It&#39;s funny that some of them actually ridicule Zapf &#40;didn&#39;t want to
    mention that, eh? :-&#41; even though he&#39;s 10 times more successful than them.
    How did that happen? Well, 50,000 Frenchman &#42;can&#42; be wrong. GN has great
    charisma, and students are typically ripe for being influenced - free thinkers
    are rare. When William Morris complained about all the misguided commercial products
    around him, most people didn&#39;t get it either. Chirographic type is an impediment
    to cultural progress. It limits exploration to the continent we&#39;re already
    on. We need an astrolabe to &#42;really&#42; explore, and that astrolabe -conveniently
    ignored by the GN clan- is an understanding of &#42;reading&#42;, not writing.
    <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>I thought you were implying that there should be font design
    software that lets you define fonts based on strokes, coupled to translation and
    rotation of the front. Well, ideologically that would violate notan &#40;the unity
    and relationship between black and white - the heart of design&#41;. Practically,
    it would violate human perception: just look at all those masterful text fonts
    that people who &#91;would&#93; disagree with GN &#40;I&#39;m not the only one,
    not by a long shot - although I&#39;m also not masterful...&#41; have produced.
    Design through outlines is not an engineer&#39;s distortion of the craft: it is
    in fact the true way. Chirographic type is selfish artistry, it is anti-craft.
    <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-12-15 03:58:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; over 120 designs <BR> <BR>BTW, I&#39;m not doubting it, but I wondering
    where you got that number - &#34;Haagse Letters&#34;? &#40;I&#39;m actually waiting
    for my copy of that compendium.&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62; his students are independent
    thinkers in their own right <BR> <BR>Strike up a functionalist argument with one
    of them, and you might realize how similar they all are; chances are they&#39;ll
    revert to the familiarity escape clause &#40;the way you&#39;re doing?&#41;. Familiarity
    is only half the story &#40;and it&#39;s not even understood&#42;&#41; - face
    it, and move forward. Independent? Or maybe uncommitted to considering the relevance
    of &#42;reading&#42; and/or the limits of their artistry. There is so much potential
    in those designers - I hope one day they will start thinking fearlessly, and realize
    there&#39;s so much more to type than expression. GN himself can at least take
    credit for thinking laterally, against his environment. His students &#40;as a
    whole&#41; seem entirely conventional to me. Which makes sense considering how
    dogmatically GN actually expresses himself - never a trace a self-doubt - never
    questions, only answers. <BR> <BR>&#42; Does familiarity concern individual letters,
    or boumas? Does it concern letters as structures, or as holistic shapes? How quickly
    is familiarity gained, for what types of things? All of these central questions
    are never even &#42;asked&#42; by those who worship at its altar. Makes sense,
    I guess: religion cannot really handle inquisition. Art exists for its own sake.
    But type is less than half art. <BR> <BR>&#62; Counterpunch ... the most enthralling
    book I&#39;ve read in years. <BR> <BR>&#34;Counterpunch&#34; is indeed amazing.
    Strangely enough, it&#39;s the book that launched my alphabet reform effort, when
    I realized that the lc &#34;a&#34; in the Latin alphabet is facing the wrong way...
    Although I later realized that glyph direction is irrelevant during immersive
    reading. You can see the whole messy development of this most uncomfortable idea
    of mine in the archives of Typo-L. If you&#39;re interested, start here <A HREF="http://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind9805&amp;L=typo-l&amp;P=R2118&amp;I=-3"
    TARGET="_top">http://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind9805&amp;L=typo-l&amp;P=R2118&amp;I=-3</A>
    , but be prepared to read through a couple of years... Anyway, what&#39;s interesting
    about Smeijers is how deeply he contradicts himself sometimes: the mark of an
    artist. And I do admire Quadraat, if for other reasons than Smeijers claims to
    have intended. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>BTW, I don&#39;t think I&#39;m/we_are hijacking
    Julien&#39;s thread: his essential complaint was concerning non-chirographic type.
    <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-12-15 18:20:36'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' &#62;religion cannot really handle inquisition <BR> <BR>ok, this is truly
    off the subject, and i don&#39;t expect a response &#40;maybe we can discuss some
    other place and time&#41;, but inquisition merely weeds out untruth, whether in
    religion or something else. <BR> <BR>happy holidays. see you next year. '
  created: '2002-12-17 05:47:50'
date: '2002-12-11 14:17:15'
title: Kill bad splines curves :-&#41;
...
