---
author:
  name: clearbolt
body: ive just registered a new domain &#40; <a href="http://www.workdayprojects.com"
  target="_blank">www.workdayprojects.com</a> &#41; to showcase my design work and
  i&#39;ve decided to go all out and create an identity package for myself. here is
  a link to the swf file so you can zoom in and check it out. comments appreciated.
  thanks. <BR> <BR><a href="http://clearbolt.com/wdp_station.swf" target="_blank">http://clearbolt.com/wdp_station.swf</a>
comments:
- author:
    name: george
    picture: 110436
  body: hi russ <BR> <BR>first, why the dots in the name? do they stand for anything
    special or are they just design? the color scheme, albeit warm and balanced, is
    unusual for a design company. I judge the design in terms of client relevance
    and I find no connection point. It says technical to me, rather than warmth and
    creativity. The layout is nice, I like it the most of all. <BR> <BR>george
  created: '2004-04-06 12:03:03'
- author:
    name: designalchemy
  body: link to pdf. I can really see what&#39;s going on as graphic seems too small
    to critique
  created: '2004-04-06 21:48:51'
- author:
    name: designalchemy
  body: link to pdf. I can&#39;t really see what&#39;s going on as graphic seems too
    small to critique
  created: '2004-04-06 21:49:28'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: Ole, you can zoom in Flash... Option click I think.
  created: '2004-04-06 21:56:46'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: Right-click for the more, savvy/literate PC users ;-P <BR> <BR>Hildebrant.
  created: '2004-04-06 23:38:47'
- author:
    name: clearbolt
  body: the reason for the dots is becase i would like to have a more interesting
    visual element in my identity system. a purely typographic solution wouldve worked
    but that wouldve definetly pushed it more towards the technical and cold direction
    you were talking about. im a fan of minimal design and grid systems. its the kind
    of design i like to do most and hopefully i can continue to work on those type
    of projects with my future clients.
  created: '2004-04-07 01:47:23'
- author:
    name: nike
    picture: 110417
  body: i like the colors. they are very soft and sympathic.  <BR> <BR>if you&#39;re
    printing the backside of your sheet, the negative wouldn&#39;t work well, because
    you will see a shadow of the front-side-logo. what do you think of punching or
    lasering it out. or you might try to flip the logo. <BR> <BR>your logo &#34;wdp&#34;
    is quite rough. i think to rough for the layout and colors. <BR> <BR>i personally
    dislike folded business-cards because there are a bit unpractical. <BR> <BR>can
    you make a sample-letter with text? blanc letters are difficult to comment because
    you&#39;ll never send a blanc letter. <BR>
  created: '2004-04-07 09:43:09'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: its control click for mac users - the zoom thing <BR>
  created: '2004-04-07 20:48:06'
date: '2004-04-05 19:30:49'
title: Workday projects identity design
...
