---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: ' Hi folks, I have a copy of Stephen Moye&#39;s Fontographer: Type by Design.
  It&#39;s in pretty good shape, some bent corners and such. I think I&#39;m ready
  to part with it. Anyone interested? '
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' You will find a lot of buyers, some willing to pay a hefty sum. <BR> <BR>Ergo:
    Put it up on eBay, and advertise the fact at as many type-related places possible.
    <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-21 04:28:44'
- author:
    name: designalchemy
  body: ' I am interested in buying it. how much? '
  created: '2002-04-21 04:56:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' What&#39;s up with that, Hrant? eBay?! Don&#39;t you  <BR>want the members
    of Typophile to benefit from  <BR>an exclusive offer? Poo on you! <BR> <BR>Stephen '
  created: '2002-04-21 06:56:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' An individual must see his society as being higher than himself, but other
    individuals higher still. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-21 07:51:29'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: ' I agree, Stephen. Membership certainly should have its priveleges. <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;ve heard that they will not be republishing this book. When this occurs
    in the publishing industry, what do the laws state about distributing, say, PDF
    or digital versions of a book? '
  created: '2002-04-21 15:44:24'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: ' Jared -- <BR> <BR>Regardless of whether a publisher intends to keep a book
    in print or not, the rights to publish, adapt, and distribute a work are retained
    by the copyright holder &#40;usually either the author or the publisher&#41;.
    This includes electronic forms. <BR> <BR>There is an provision to the copyright
    law known as the &#34;fair use&#34; exception which allows for some copying without
    permission for cases of criticism, reporting, teaching, and scholarship. These
    exceptions, however, do not generally allow for the copying and distribution of
    an entire work. <BR> <BR>So if you wanted to create and distribute a digital &#34;reprint&#34;
    of Moye&#39;s book, you&#39;d need to get permission first. <BR> <BR>-- Kent. '
  created: '2002-04-21 17:57:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' A permission which Moye himself has been unable to get from the publisher!
    <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-21 18:16:28'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: ' I had a discussion with a big wig at the publishing company that bought
    MIS Press. They have no intention of reprinting the book and they have no intention
    to allow permission to copy the books contents in any format even though a copy
    of the book cannot be located. <BR> <BR>What&#39;s frustrating is that the book
    is very very good and as relevant today as it was when it was written due to Fontographer
    not seeing an update in lo these many years. <BR> <BR>I wrote several e-mails
    to Stephen with no reply and I&#39;m not sure if there is any way to share the
    fantastic information that is contained within this book. Any ideas? It&#39;s
    as good as you think it is. <BR> <BR>Funny side note, I found a copy of the book
    on eBay right after as the auction ended and the seller was thrilled to get $15
    for what he felt was &#34;dry and bording&#34; <BR> <BR>Stuart :D '
  created: '2002-04-21 18:33:48'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Wow! You&#39;re all so fast to respond. I will be happy to offer it to someone
    here before turning to eBay; care to throw out an offer, Ole? <BR> <BR>Alan '
  created: '2002-04-21 18:34:59'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: ' Hrant: I&#39;m not saying it&#39;s fair. Jared just asked what the law says.
    I think the publisher is being short-sighted and will tarnish it&#39;s reputation
    with stubborn practices like this. Hopefully, Mr. Moye will negotiate a better
    contract next time. <BR> <BR>Stuart: The information in the book is not copyrightable
    -- that is, the ideas are not protected, just the actual expression of them. You
    can share the same ideas in your own words with your own examples. Mr. Moye could
    re-express the same ideas in new ways and possibly publish a new book on the same
    topic &#40;with another publisher, undoubtedly&#41;. <BR> <BR>There is, of course,
    a gray area where new expression of old ideas and plagiarism meet. My point is,
    just because a bull-headed publisher refuses to reprint &#40;which I can understand&#41;
    or to give permission &#40;which I can&#39;t necessarily agree with&#41; doesn&#39;t
    mean that the information is lost or trapped.  <BR> <BR>Disclaimer: I&#39;m not
    a copyright attorney, nor have I ever played one on TV. <BR> <BR>-- K. '
  created: '2002-04-21 19:28:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; the seller was thrilled to get $15 <BR> <BR>The seller wasn&#39;t
    smart enough to advertise the sale properly. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>WARNING: controversial
    opinion below. <BR> <BR>&#62; Any ideas? <BR> <BR>In situations where the legal
    owner of the &#34;property&#34; is seen as sufficiently unreasonable, I would
    recommend taking guerilla action. For example, re-publish the work on a site of
    a political entity that doesn&#39;t have a copyright agreement with the US. Failing
    that, on a site of a country that does have a treaty, but also happens to have
    enough bigger problems that they would never come after you. This includes most
    countries on this planet. <BR> <BR>The letter of the law must not be allowed to
    overpower decent behavior. <BR> <BR>HOWEVER, you need to make sure that: <BR>1.
    Your guerilla action is motivated by unreasonable behavior on their part, and
    not simply because you don&#39;t have the mettle to do things legitimately. <BR>2.
    You make no material profit from the process. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-21 19:56:34'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'My altruistic &#40;read unrealistic :-&#41; suggestion: <BR> <BR>We create
    a library-like situation where: <BR> <BR>_ Users sign up to use the book for a
    set  <BR>period &#40;one month, two months?&#41;. First come,  <BR>first served,
    of course. <BR> <BR>_ Borrower agrees to pay for shipping to the next  <BR>person
    in line. &#40;2nd day FedEx&#41; <BR> <BR>_ Borrowers agree to be blacklisted,
    stoned  <BR>and / or beaten if they betray the battalion of  <BR>people behind
    them in line.'
  created: '2002-04-22 04:34:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Hmmm, if you set up some kind of refundable-deposit thingie &#40;which cascades
    from one person to the next&#41;, this might actually be a killer idea! <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-22 06:33:57'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: ' I think that is a great idea Joe! It&#39;s the only way that content is
    going to be shared. <BR> <BR>Ole, send Alan $20 plus shipping fees to you . .
    . <BR> <BR>Alan send Ole the book when you get the cash . . . <BR> <BR>Ole, read
    the book, post to the group when you&#39;re done reading it and continue the cycle
    charging $20 and shipping fees. <BR> <BR>In ten years when we&#39;ve all read
    it, Alan you can eBay it! <BR> <BR>Stuart :D '
  created: '2002-04-22 06:50:19'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Suppose there were 4 or 5 people with dusty  <BR>copies who are loathe to
    fully give them up. They  <BR>could make the book available on semi-permanent  <BR>loan
    to the type community and the pool of  <BR>beneficiaries would be that much greater. '
  created: '2002-04-22 07:41:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: ' Sign me up. I&#39;ve got a TBD for loan. <BR> <BR>I&#39;d like to see the
    Alphabook in the <BR>pool as well. New thread? <BR> <BR>Stephen '
  created: '2002-04-22 10:19:47'
- author:
    name: designalchemy
  body: ' I am interested in buying this book but I suppose it would be better for
    the community if it could be shared, so Stuart Sandler&#39;s idea of $20 plus
    shipping  &#40;read content and sell again to other typophiles&#41; sounds best
    to me. I my experience, lending out books often ends in loss. This past year I
    have lost several amazing titles such as Tolleson Design&#39;s book, Why Not associates,
    DR&#39;s catalog for Murrey &amp; Vern, Vaughn Olivers Visceral Pleasures, etc.
    An easy $300 worth. I do not do this anymore so selling and buying is where it
    is at for me. '
  created: '2002-04-23 00:33:25'
date: '2002-04-21 03:24:35'
title: 'Fontographer: Type by Design book'
...
