---
author:
  name: eolson
  picture: 110439
body: Is it possible to have too many points in an OT font? <BR>Seems unlikely as
  one can have some 65,000 odd characters. <BR> <BR>The font in question fails to
  generate &#40;Fontlab stalls while <BR>generating the file - but doesn&#39;t crash&#41;.
  When I generate the <BR>file as a normal T1 file is generates fine. If I generate
  only <BR>caps and lowercase &#40;by deleting all other characters&#41; the file
  <BR>manages to generate - but very slowly. <BR> <BR>&#40;the font has many many
  points&#41; <BR> <BR>Any help would be greatly appreciated
comments:
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: I had a similar problem once Eric. IIRC, I managed to &#39;solve&#39; it by
    unchecking &#40;in the <i>Tools &#62; Options &#62; OpenType</i> panel&#41; the
    &#39;Use subroutines to compress outlines in OTF fonts&#39; box.  <BR> <BR>That&#39;s
    probably a very white trash solution - hopefully someone else has something more
    intelligent - but it got my font sorted. <BR> <BR>Cheers. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-04-07 23:03:15'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: 'Hallo Eric, <BR> <BR>him, I think your fontlab is not dead. It uses the adobe
    fdk to generate the CFF encoding. It seems you have turned on the option &#34;use
    subroutines to compress...&#34; <BR> <BR>Turn it off and it should work very fast.
    I have tested some complex fonts too, and the subroutinizing process can take
    a lot of time. My record was 9 hours on a 1GHz Athlon to encode.  <BR> <BR>example:
    <BR>without compression 900 kb fontdata <BR>with compression 300 kb fontdata <BR>
    <BR>So, if you made your final version, turn the compression on and next morning
    your font is done! ;-&#41;  <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-07 23:08:27'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: 'Nathan and Andreas - <BR> <BR>That was it!  <BR>Thank you kindly. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    interested to see how long the compressed version <BR>may take to generate... '
  created: '2004-04-08 00:02:18'
date: '2004-04-07 22:54:05'
title: Too many points in an OT font?
...
