---
author:
  name: emilie
  picture: 110079
body: Hey guys, <BR> <BR>I&#39;m working on a series of biographies &#40;3 series
  of 5 books&#41; One is on literature, one on music and one on politics. In each
  I&#39;m using the same fonts &#40;so far I have Frutiger I&#39;m sure about&#41;
  but in literature I use the serif in italic, in music the normal serif and in politics
  the small caps serif.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m hesitating between Minion MM or Bembo as
  a serif. What are your opinions? Any other sans come to mind other than Frutiger
  to complement one or the other? <BR> <BR>Thanks! <BR> <BR>Em
comments:
- author:
    name: eekamouse
  body: Hello <BR> <BR>First time here  ...ooh er! <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve been using Minion
    recently for a series of &#40;typographic&#41; ads and templates. I much prefer
    it to the slightly too wide Bembo. The version of Minion I have comes with a lovely
    set of ornaments, although unfortunately, no ligatures.
  created: '2004-04-08 10:39:47'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'Emilie: <BR>If you do decide to go with Minion, I&#39;d use the new OpenType
    cut. The design has been subtly refined.'
  created: '2004-04-08 12:03:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'When you say &#34;book&#34;, I guess you mean something more like &#34;short
    booklet&#34;? Because you don&#39;t want to set too much text in italics and certainly
    not smallcaps... BTW, I think I&#39;d set the music in italic. <BR> <BR>Font choice:
    why so mundane? Try something new. I guess you need something with a tame italic,
    and smallcaps. Stylisitically mabe it should be &#34;factual&#34;, since it&#39;s
    biographies - so what about a Scotch face, like Miller? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-08 15:24:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I have read that the digital version of Bembo, as opposed to the great original
    metal version, has problems. In the discussion on the Yale site for Matthew Carter&#39;s
    new face for Yale, influenced by the metal Bembo, he mentions the weakness of
    the digital version. <BR> <BR>I know the original Minion and Minion Pro, which
    is definitely better. I don&#39;t know the MM version, but I have read on these
    boards that the Pro version is improved from it.  <BR> <BR>Minion Pro is wonderfully
    serviceable because of its completeness: optical weights, and small caps in all
    sizes, as well as small caps semi-bold, bold, italic, swash characters, ornaments,
    etc. A bonus is also that you can use Poetica as a formal script companion to
    Minion, as its letterforms are similar to Minion italic.    '
  created: '2004-04-08 18:14:29'
- author:
    name: emilie
    picture: 110079
  body: 'Thanks for all that feedback! <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll check out your suggestions
    for sure. Another Minion cut sounds like it would be a good idea. I did notice
    some huge differences just between Minion and Minion MM so I could imagine the
    opentype version. <BR> <BR>Hrant: I&#39;m only doing the covers and backs &#40;15
    of them&#41; not the inside of the books. <BR>What do you mean by factual? Maybe,
    historically correlating? Or Scotch face, what&#39;s a Scotch face? Pardon my
    ignorance on that matter ;-&#41;  <BR> <BR>All the biographies are of people from
    Qu'
  created: '2004-04-08 18:45:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#34;Factual&#34;: They&#39;re biographies, so based on facts &#40;although
    that&#39;s a tricky word :-&#41;. <BR> <BR>Scotch: it&#39;s a category of serif
    typeface, with full, &#34;honest&#34; forms. Not sure how best to describe it...
    Check out Georgia. And Scotch italics tend to have tame, somewhat Roman features
    &#40;hence they&#39;re more readable&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-08 19:04:36'
- author:
    name: addison
  body: If you&#39;re wanting something with the flavor of Bembo, you could also take
    a look at Dante and Iowan  Old Style. They offer nice italics &#40;especially
    Dante!&#41; and small caps. Another possibility is Philomela by Lars Bergquist
    available from <a href="http://www.psyops.com/html/spec_philomela.html">PsyOps</a>.
    <BR> <BR>Also see <a href="http://www.mvbfonts.com/html/fonts/verdigris/pk_verdigris.htm">Verdigris</a>
    and <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/feliciano/rongel/">Rongel</a>.
  created: '2004-04-08 21:33:42'
- author:
    name: addison
  body: For a different sans, take a look at <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/feliciano/stella/">Stella</a>.
    This is one of my favorites from the Indie Book 2, but I&#39;ve haven&#39;t heard
    much about it, or seen it used anywhere else. It looks as if it would complement
    a garalde roman nicely, especially Rongel &#40;from the same foundry&#41;.
  created: '2004-04-08 21:46:34'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: 'I can only comment as a reader, not a professional. But ... <BR> <BR>I&#39;d
    avoid digital Bembo. It really is grey and dull. It&#39;s a terrible pity, because
    it was in its day such an exquisitely fine typeface: deep warm black type on cream
    paper. Now it&#39;s hardly ever any good. &#40;The Tufte books are fine, but iirc
    he set in metal then printed from a proof&#41;. I think it should be sent to an
    honourable grave, or reworked a la the New Yale typeface. <BR> <BR>If you must
    use Bembo, please use ff, ffl and ffi ligatures and OS numbers. Bembo really needs
    them. <BR> <BR>I personally dislike Minion. You see much too much of it. It&#39;s
    too mannered and too polished. But far sooner Minion than Bembo. But on the whole
    I&#39;m with the re-open nominations crowd. <BR> <BR>Dante, suggested above, is
    nice. The other possibility if you are looking for a classic &#34;academic but
    friendly&#34; look is some sort of Baskerville -- alongside Bembo the type of
    choice for that sort of product in the mid-20th century. But they&#39;ve been
    largely killed by digitization as well. I have seen one book &#40;history&#41;
    in Storm Baskerville, which I thought looked as it should, but I&#39;m not sure
    about the figures. I don&#39;t know if anyone has experience of using it.'
  created: '2004-04-08 21:47:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: The only reason I am tired of Minion is because it&#39;s our corporate typeface.
    Otherwise, it&#39;s a lovely piece of work. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m surprised to hear
    that Rob thinks he has a version of Minion with no ligatures. Every version we&#39;ve
    issued, with the possible exception of Minion Web, has at least fi and fl ligatures.
    I suppose you could be on Windows and using QuarkXPress, in which case you couldn&#39;t
    use those ligatures &#40;which are still present&#41;. InDesign can get at them,
    though. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-08 23:02:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;a lovely piece of work.  <BR> <BR>I agree. I had reservations about
    Minion until I got the Pro version, which convinced me. It is still not my favorite,
    but it is extremely well done and so complete that it is an amazing workhorse.
    It is very compact with a modest x height, and the result is that it will serve
    the text well in many many situations.  '
  created: '2004-04-09 00:00:58'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: I don&#39;t want anyone to think that I disparage Minion; I can see its virtues,
    but I cannot love them. I guess it&#39;s a matter of taste. Minion seems to me
    slightly mannered, perhaps too polished, its elegance too studied. When it comes
    to tea, it spreads its napkin carefully, drops no crumbs, eats its cake with a
    fork and holds its cup ever-so-daintily. It avoids talking about sex, religion
    or politics. It leaves when it should and writes its thank-you note that evening.
    One&#39;s mother says, &#34;When are you having that nice Minion over, such a
    charming boy.&#34; I prefer something a little rougher, quirkier, more dangerous.
    <BR> <BR>And because it&#39;s such a pleasant guest, one does see it around a
    lot. Better, no doubt and by far, than some of the others one sees all the time.
    But unlikely to thrill.
  created: '2004-04-09 02:05:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Paul, right on! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-04-09 02:09:31'
- author:
    name: emilie
    picture: 110079
  body: Well some updates here, I do like Minion Pro a lot more than the MM one so
    I changed it. So much for the Bembo, I liked some of its shapes but some spacing
    was getting problematic.  <BR> <BR>One problem though, it has no small caps? I&#39;m
    kind of amazed it doesn&#39;t since it has all those display, caption, subhead,
    text, etc. <BR> <BR>Another thing, are there average standard sizes to determine
    when I should use text, caption and subhead or is it intuitive? &#40;or a bit
    of both&#41; For now I&#39;m using the small caps from Minion MM but it seems
    to be more condensed, not sure?
  created: '2004-04-09 03:09:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;no small caps? <BR> <BR>Minion Pro has small caps in all weights and
    styles. To access them in InDesign you click on the options arrow at the top right
    of the Character dialogue box, which will open up a large list of options, including
    small caps. I don&#39;t know about Quark. '
  created: '2004-04-09 11:49:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: The small caps feature of OT fonts is not accessible from within current versions
    of Quark &#40;or any other program that does not support OT layout features, for
    that matter&#41;. <BR> <BR>This is one of the main reason why those of us who
    still depend upon Quark &#40;for whatever reasons; we needn&#39;t debate them
    here&#41; find the upgrade to OT versions to be of less value. <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2004-04-09 13:10:59'
- author:
    name: emilie
    picture: 110079
  body: Aaah gotcha.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m in InDesign so no problems on that. I had my
    ligatures checked but I was afraid the small caps option would make some &#34;fake&#34;
    ones =&#41; <BR> <BR>Thanks! <BR>Em
  created: '2004-04-09 15:59:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: An understandable concern! But as long as the font is OpenType and has real
    small caps, the small caps formatting in InDesign will use those real small caps.
    Otherwise it will indeed synthesize fake small caps. <BR> <BR>Emilie, you might
    want to browse the OpenType User Guide. I put in a lot of info about exactly these
    sorts of concerns. See <a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype" target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype</a>
    and look for the link on the right. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-09 17:34:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Oops, missed one of your questions there. <BR> <BR>Typically, caption is
    about 6-8 points, text is 9-13, subhead 13-24, and display is &#62;24. But we
    post all the details in the &#34;readme&#34; for each font package, including
    the exact sizes that each cut is intended to cover. The Minion Pro readme can
    be found here: &#60;<a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/readmes/minionproopticalsreadme.pdf"
    target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/readmes/minionproopticalsreadme.pdf</a>&#62;
    <BR> <BR>I hope that helps! <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-04-09 19:43:58'
- author:
    name: emilie
    picture: 110079
  body: Hi Thomas, <BR> <BR>That&#39;s going to be helpful as well. <BR> <BR>Is there
    a way to know when you have real small caps in a font or when they are being faked?
    &#40;not just Minion but in general, in InDesign&#41; <BR> <BR>Thanks! <BR> <BR>Em
    <BR>
  created: '2004-04-09 22:54:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Em, <BR> <BR>If you look at the comparison of fake and real small caps in
    the OpenType User Guide &#40;linked previously&#41;, I think that it&#39;s pretty
    clear from just the weight differences. That is, fake small caps always look too
    light &#40;using caps, lower-case or real small caps for comparison&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>If you want to tell &#34;is there a small cap feature in the font&#41; you
    can use the Glyph Palette in Illustrator CS or InDesign. It allows you to filter
    by layout feature, so you can see what all the, say, swash glyphs look like. Or
    all the small caps. <BR> <BR>One can also go online to adobe.com and drill down
    to the page for the font, and see a bunch of turqoise blue &#40;cyan&#41; icons
    on the right that tell you what kinds of goodies are in the font. Or one can download
    the &#34;glyph complement&#34; PDF to see them. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-09 23:49:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: 'I realize you&#39;ve already chosen Minion Pro, but here&#39;s a little additional
    ammunition to make yourself feel good about your choice, and lament Bembo&#39;s
    lackluster digitizing: <a href="http://www.textism.com/textfaces/index.html?id=2">Textism:
    Twenty Faces: Bembo</a>. It&#39;s a worthwhile list to read through in general.
    Apologies if this is old news for you, Em.'
  created: '2004-04-11 03:56:15'
date: '2004-04-08 03:52:10'
title: Bembo or Minion MM?
...
