---
author:
  name: jcade
body: I&#39;m a graphic artist for the publications department at a small university.  I&#39;ve
  been here just over a year.  <BR> <BR>The font situation here is a hodge-podge of
  image club fonts from eons ago and whatever has acumulated over the years.  We&#39;ve
  identified fonts as a priority for this fiscal year and we&#39;re looking for a
  good bundle that would lend itself to broad applications in order to update our
  fonts and make our collection more stable. <BR> <BR>Just like everybody out there,
  we need to maximize cost to benefit ratio &#40;in other words, no money to waste&#41;.
  <BR> <BR>No doubt, this question has been asked before.  Could you please offer
  advice or direct me to the appropriate thread. <BR> <BR>Thanks much <BR> <BR>jason
comments:
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: How much are you willing to spend? What do you need the fonts for?
  created: '2004-04-08 21:00:57'
- author:
    name: jcade
  body: I&#39;ve not been precisely informed of what the budget is.  I have been sent
    on a fact finding mission by my superior. <BR> <BR>Anyway, in this office we do
    a quarterly alumni magazine, sports publications &#40;media guides&#41;, mailings
    for fundraising initiatives, president&#39;s report, advertising, recruitment,
    etc.  We design all the propaganda that you can think of that might come from
    a University. <BR> <BR>It seems that some of my predecessors have not been good
    stewards of the assets here.  It is difficult to tell what we legitimately own
    and what has been provided with outsourced jobs or by students needing a specific
    something-or-other etc. <BR> <BR>The fonts that we do own are old and on 3.5&#34;
    floppies &#40;which no one in our dept can access anymore&#41;.  So, to legitimize
    our collection and get things back in order, we&#39;d like to more or less start
    fresh with a nice, general and adaptable collection. <BR> <BR>thanks <BR> <BR>-j
  created: '2004-04-08 21:21:48'
- author:
    name: victor
  body: 'Don&#39;t know if it&#39;s too basic for your needs, but at an educational
    price of 99 USD, the Adobe Type Classics for Learning CD would be hard to beat.  <BR>
    <BR>About 400 fonts in all, including all of Adobe&#39;s Pro families, including
    &#34;Opticals&#34;, except, I think, Kepler and Brioso. &#40;Might be wrong about
    that.&#41; So: Minion, Adobe Jenson, Cronos, Warnock, Utopia, Sanvito, Chapparral.
    Also includes the non-optical Pro families, including Adobe Caslon and Adobe Garamond,
    Myriad, Lithos, Trajan. And quite a few others. <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a fair amount
    of overlap with the fonts bundled with the Creative Suite package &#40;which does
    include Brioso Pro&#41;. The educational price for the &#34;Premium Suite&#34;
    is just under 400 USD. <BR> <BR> <BR>vc'
  created: '2004-04-08 22:25:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: The $99 is the price for a single user for Type Classics for Learning &#40;unlike
    most Adobe font products, it&#39;s not a 5-user license&#41;. However, if you&#39;re
    licensing for multiple users, I think it goes down to $50 per user after the first.
    You&#39;d have to contact your educational software purchasing folks for details.
    <BR> <BR>I believe Victor&#39;s right about Kepler and Brioso not being on Type
    Classics; they were released after Type Classics shipped. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR>
    <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-08 22:30:41'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: This thread might prove useful. Much discussion about the relative merits
    of various type bundles &#40;and of type bundling itself&#41;. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/25742.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/25742.html</a>
  created: '2004-04-09 02:58:05'
- author:
    name: jcade
  body: Thanks very much for the information.  I&#39;ll try to post back and let you
    know what we decide to do. <BR> <BR>-j
  created: '2004-04-09 15:51:53'
date: '2004-04-08 17:18:28'
title: Buying fonts
...
