---
author:
  name: hyphen8
body: Hey, how is everyone? <BR> <BR>Just wanted to get some opinions on a project
  I think I&#39;m about to undertake... <BR> <BR>My dayjob is housed in an old Masonic
  temple, circa 1915.  No traces of what it used to be remain, except for the entire
  upper floor!  Each room is labeled above the doorway, &#34;ASSEMBLY HALL&#34;, &#34;RECREATION&#34;,
  etc.  When I examine the lettering, I can see the brush strokes--how would this
  kind of lettering be accomplished in 1915?  Templates?  &#40;Really precise&#41;
  Freehand?  Just curious, because if templates were used that probably means they
  were mass-produced and there would be little purpose in working with them. <BR>
  <BR>Thanks everyone. <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: Probably hand-painted, using ruled lines to keep the type level. Most hand-painted
    letters were loosely based on exisiting typefaces, altered in order to fit their
    intended use &#40;condensed, extended, etc.&#41; and usually the widths were based
    on the width of the brush used to paint them. As with all things, there are exceptions
    to every rule, and some hand-painted letters are 100% unique and some are exact
    copies from type specimen books.
  created: '2004-04-12 23:23:34'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: Paul, any chance that you could post some photos?
  created: '2004-04-13 11:31:26'
date: '2004-04-12 16:21:43'
title: Masonic Temple Typeface
...
