---
author:
  name: elastik
  picture: 109900
body: any idea where i could start digging to find samples of different stages of
  this more than 500 yrs old typeface? any tips for bibliography, or even links for
  online stuff? how often has this typeface been redrawn, which ones were successful,
  which ones weren&#39;t? would love to get really deep into this typeface. cheers,
  <BR>c
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Well, for starters, the face we know as Bembo is from 1928. It was a modern
    revival of the faces which were cut for Aldus Manutius over 500 years ago. The
    name comes from the name of an author of a book that Aldus published. The face
    went into disuse after Aldus until it was revived as Bembo. <BR> <BR>Off the top
    of my head, here are some good sources of information about Bembo: <BR> <BR>A
    Tally of Types, by Stanley Morison <BR>Printing Types: An Introduction, by Alexander
    Lawson <BR>Twentieth Century Type Designers, by Sebastian Carter'
  created: '2004-04-13 01:24:08'
- author:
    name: elastik
    picture: 109900
  body: great! do you actually have any ideas where i could find original examples
    of bembo? the version before 1928?
  created: '2004-04-13 02:41:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Just to be clear: Bembo didn&#39;t exist before 1928. The earlier types that
    it was based on didn&#39;t have a name as such, and I wouldn&#39;t call them earlier
    versions of Bembo. That would be like calling the New Testament an earlier version
    of the movie <i>The Passion of the Christ</i>. <BR> <BR>Anyway, for samples of
    Aldus Manutius&#39; printing, which might have examples of the typeface that inspired
    Bembo, try one of these: <BR> <BR>The Art of the Printed Book, by Joseph Blumenthal
    <BR>An Atlas of Typeforms, by Sutton and Bartram <BR> <BR>Incidentally, the book
    that inspired the name was called <i>De Aetna</i>, by Bembo &#40;the cardinal,
    not the font&#41;, published in Venice in 1495.'
  created: '2004-04-13 03:28:22'
date: '2004-04-12 23:56:18'
title: The origins of Bembo
...
