---
author:
  name: elastik
  picture: 109900
body: would love to see your ideas about aesthetics in typography. <BR>is harmony
  beautyful, and disharmony ugly? is beauty dependent on shape, or can any typeface
  be beautiful if set into the right surroundings? has beauty become the same as style
  nowadays?  <BR> <BR>please share your ideas and interpretations.
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Too much harmony/unity/symmetry ... Too much discord/incongruity/assymetry
    ... Both can be beautiful and ugly. The wonderful thing about all things creative
    manifested in objects of all varieties is that it is all subjective. Of course
    there are things that some will agree upon, but those same things can become a
    rift between two designers that were friends. Some typefaces are beautiful in
    an of themselves. But those same typefaces don&#39;t guarantee a well thought
    out typographic scheme. For everything there is an opposite, and that is what
    makes some beautiful, I think so anyway.
  created: '2004-04-13 17:14:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Harmony is indeed an interesting thing. Two aspects of it that I think are
    most notabe: <BR>1&#41; There are levels of complexity of harmony, and discord
    is merely the point at which the complexity exceeds our ability to appreciate
    it. Furthermore, this point varies for each individual. <BR>2&#41; I think that
    you can have harmony in consiousness, and also harmony in the subconscious. For
    example in a display face harmony can be promoted through high formal modularity
    and alignment; but the way a text face is used might make these harmonic tactics
    actually backfire. You could say text faces need a deeper harmony to really work,
    but when set at a large point size it looks like discord. <BR> <BR>I would recommend
    a wonderful little booklet called &#34;The Harmonograph&#34; by Anthony Ashton
    &#40;Wooden Books Ltd, 1999&#41;. Although the book is essentially about a peculiar
    undulating device &#40;popular in the Victorian period&#41; which draws spirals
    and such of varying complexity, it does contain some great nuggets of harmonic
    wisdom - such as this: &#34;Music with only simple harmonies can seem naive and
    uninteresting. The more complex harmonies are intriguing, challenging.&#34; <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-13 20:27:43'
date: '2004-04-13 16:00:04'
title: Aesthetics - Beauty and Ugly
...
