---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "Although this is a topic that people who really know about will rarely address
  in public (hmmm, what topic isn't? :-) I'd like to ask for people&#39;s experiences,
  so we can build a \"knowledge base\" so the speak.\r\n\r\n<strong>What are good
  pricing schemes for commercial licenses and custom work? By the former I mean like
  pricing for site licenses, etc. And by the latter I mean pricing for custom/exclusive
  fonts.</strong>\r\n\r\nLet me break the ice with two things from my end:\r\n1) One
  of my non-Latin commissions has involved pulling a then-recently-released and single-digit-sold
  Armenian font from the retail market and transferring exclusive rights (for 3 years)
  to a small literary publication: $1600. Two weights with mechanical obliques.\r\n2)
  I recently sold an Armenian retail font set (four weights, no italics) to the local
  Church Diocese for use on any computer in their main headquarters (in Burbank).
  Normally costing $250, I charged them $400.\r\n\r\nhhp"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'For custom work, I don&#39;t think it is possible to set a price independent
    of who the client is: Microsoft pays more for my services than the Society of
    Biblical Literature. Also, the price tends to vary according to the value added,
    which in turn should be reflected in the license rights. A license may be exclusive,
    but still might not permit some kinds of use or distribution; another license
    may not be exclusive, but may permit virtually any use and even redistribution.
    A client might say they want the font e.g. to bundle with a specific product,
    but if they request a license that permits more than that -- even if they only
    ever bundle with that one product -- then they pay for what the license permits,
    not what they actually intend or do. <BR> <BR>$1,600 seems very little for exclusive
    rights for three years for two weights. What were the license terms?'
  created: '2004-04-16 20:31:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I don&#39;t think it is possible to set a price independent of who
    the client is <BR> <BR>Sure. Just some real numbers would be great though.  :-&#62;
    <BR> <BR>&#62; $1,600 seems very little <BR> <BR>Not for the Armenian market.
    In fact when the guy accepted my price I was shocked - partly because it was a
    really small operation out of the back of his house &#40;so tying in to your point
    above&#41;. Plus no redistribution of the font was desired or needed: he installed
    it on his computer, and at the service bureau. He was strange. He even bought
    a &#40;retail&#41; font from me that he never used, seemingly only because I was
    waxing so poetic about it - in fact it started by me refusing to sell it to him
    &#40;since it was a font that <i>required</i> kerning to be on, otherwise the
    spacing would implode&#41;. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>BTW, if people have pricing information
    about &#34;third-party&#34; commercial/custom work &#40;like &#34;I&#39;ve read
    that Carter got low five figures for Manutius&#34;&#41; that would be great too.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-16 20:58:32'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: This is/would be really useful information. Others please join the fray! <BR>
    <BR>Randy
  created: '2004-04-16 23:18:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: So what about some input about site license stuff? What are some significant
    and/or interesting ways in which font houses define and price uses beyond the
    basic level? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-04-18 22:46:17'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: Hrant, for what it&#39;s worth, Larabie throws <BR>out a ballpark price on
    his site. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.typodermic.com/custom.html" target="_blank">http://www.typodermic.com/custom.html</a>
    <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-04-19 23:40:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Hobbiest pricing!
  created: '2004-04-20 02:58:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: So show us how that&#39;s true. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-04-20 03:51:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>So show us how that&#39;s true.</i> <BR> <BR>It&#39;s true by virtue of
    the fact that one cannot earn a living wage charging $500 for a custom font and
    still produce high quality work of the kind that takes, at minimum, several weeks.
    It is necessarily &#39;hobbyist&#39; pricing, because one could not do type design
    professionally, as the sole or primary means of earning a living, for such prices.
  created: '2004-04-20 05:36:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: You don&#39;t get it. <BR>This thread isn&#39;t about terminology, or economics.
    <BR>It&#39;s about friggin&#39; sharing data. Let&#39;s see some. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2004-04-20 05:46:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Sorry, but no. <BR> <BR>I share a huge amount of information that helps other
    people to make better quality fonts: lots of technical information and free resources
    that take me a lot of time to prepare. I do this because I cherish the explosion
    of creativity in type design that followed from the collapse of the old manufacturer
    system, and I want to do my part to make sure that this is not lost as font formats
    and technologies advance and become more complex. As I&#39;ve said many times
    in the past, I don&#39;t believe that type designers should compete on the basis
    of technical quality. But I do think they should compete on the basis of design
    quality, and also on the basis of price. I&#39;m not about to make it any easier
    for my competitors to compete with my prices. <BR> <BR>I will say this: a client
    who recently commissioned Tiro to produce some exclusive fonts -- who had invited
    a number of other companies to bid on the job -- told me that he thought we could
    afford to raise our prices. So when I say that some prices seem too low, it is
    not from the position of someone who is charging high prices within his market.'
  created: '2004-04-20 07:03:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Hrant if you want to see data, why not do a simple P&amp;L to determine the
    hourly rate you have to bill in order to make your business work. Using John&#39;s
    suggestion that a custom font takes several weeks minimun, that would amount to
    between 70 and 80 hours of billable time. A $500 fee would net you an hourly rate
    of $7.143 for 70 hours work or $6.25 if it took 80 hours. <BR> <BR>These are not
    numbers that one can run a successful business with. They are therefore hobbyist.
    <BR> <BR>Now, instead of $500 subsitute $5000. Now your time is netting $71.43
    or $62.50 per hour. Not entirely spectacular numbers but moving towards what it
    takes to keep a business afloat.
  created: '2004-04-20 13:33:02'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'I understand your frustration Hrant, but also the frustration of the sons
    of thunder &#40;James and John&#41; with demands that they should lay bare their
    pricing structures for others to undercut. <BR> <BR>Instead of talking specific
    numbers, perhaps we can talk how factors in a custom job change the bottom line
    generally. I have not designed a custom font beyond the hobbyist level, so I&#39;m
    keen to at least get a sense of the game. Here are some areas that have come up
    already: <BR> <BR><b>1. Size of the client.</b> <BR>In John&#39;s first reply
    he notes that Microsoft would pay more than the Society of Biblical Literature.
    Is this because they have a larger purse or because they have more users or both?
    One way I would consider approaching the size of the client is the number of users.
    My thought would be to ramp up the cost with a similar scale as licensing a font
    &#40;ie. with a reduction in cost per user as more users are added&#41;. Does
    this approach make sense? What are other things to consider? <BR> <BR><b>2. Terms
    of agreement.</b> <BR>Exclusivity: the longer the agreement the more it will cost.
    I have no sense of how to approach this. I&#39;d just be making up numbers out
    of the air. Any factors to consider that would lead to reasonable rate scale?
    What other terms would change the price? <BR> <BR><b>3. Scope of delivered product.</b>
    <BR>Do you think about this strictly in terms of hours, or a per weight basis?
    For example 2 weights vs 4 weights &#40;two masters and two interpolated&#41;:
    Time analysis says 4 shouldn&#39;t cost twice as much. Weight analysis says it
    should. Thoughts?  <BR> <BR><b>What else should I ponder?</b> <BR> <BR>John and
    James, thanks for your candor thus far. I&#39;d love to hear more if you&#39;re
    willing, but understand if you decline. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR>Randy <BR> <BR>Oh,
    one other question: <BR>The approach I&#39;ve taken in estimating freelance design
    projects is to provide a dollar estimate and an hour estimate. If I finish ahead
    of schedule I collect the total dollar estimate. If the project goes over hours
    &#40;with unchanged scope&#41;, I continue billing at a slightly reduced rate.
    This gives me incentive to spec the job correctly, but protects me from getting
    taken to the cleaners. I think this would translate ok to type design also. Clients
    have reacted well to it, but I&#39;m curious to hear if others do similar things,
    or how I could improve managing pricing.'
  created: '2004-04-20 16:00:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I am not <i>demanding</i> anything. But it&#39;s highly ungracious to both
    harp at people <i>and</i> refuse to share the goods. If you want to stay quiet
    about the numbers, at least manage to stay quiet about your opinion of what <i>their</i>
    numbers are. We&#39;re all in this together, in one way or another. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2004-04-20 16:36:11'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: '------------------------------------------- <BR>Cross posted with James&#39;
    <BR>------------------------------------------- <BR> <BR><i>It&#39;s about friggin&#39;
    sharing data. Let&#39;s see some.</i> <BR> <BR>The facts are that you &#40;and
    I&#41; were hoping to see dollar values for custom fonts, but John and James aren&#39;t
    willing to go there. It may bug you that they will comment on other peoples pricing
    without sharing their own &#40;though that does say something about theirs&#41;.
    You may think it ungracious, closed minded, silly, whatever... but that does not
    change the fact that they won&#39;t give you the information you want. <BR> <BR>It
    seemed more productive to me to focus on what &#42;goods&#42; they do seem to
    be willing to discuss, rather than trying to convince them to reveal their pricing.
    <BR> <BR>For the record: I appreciate your candor, and your willingness to reveal
    your pricing. Thank you for starting this thread! <BR> <BR>Randy'
  created: '2004-04-20 17:39:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Randy, in response to your points above: <BR> <BR>1. Yes, size of client
    affects the price both in terms of budget size and number of users. In the case
    of Microsoft and SBL, the fact that the latter is a scholarly organisation and
    would be making the font truly free to scholars, i.e. not bundling it as part
    of a commercial software package such as MS would, also affect the price. [In
    the case of the SBL font, I charged them a fair price for what they wanted, but
    I also donated all the smallcaps in the fonts, because they didn&#39;t have the
    budget for these and I thought the fonts needed them. But I made sure they knew
    that the smallcaps were being donated, and that what they were paying for was
    a subset of the total glyphs in the font.] <BR> <BR>2. Relating price to exclusivity
    is the most difficult thing, I find. You have to imagine how much more money you
    might make over time if you also had the right to license the font to other customers,
    but you can only guess that &#40;unless you happen to have those other customers
    lined up&#41;. Obviously, if a client wants a real exclusive, i.e. to effectively
    own all rights outright &#40;in which case you are doing work for hire&#41;, you
    can&#39;t expect them to compensate for every dollar you might possibly have earned
    in future. The process of imagining potential future profits is worthwhile, because
    it helps you come up with a price that is relative to the nature of the typeface.
    If someone wants to commission and exclusive text or display typeface for use
    in a glossy magazine, you have to consider that the future potential sales of
    licenses to such a type are considerable; if someone wants to commission an ISO
    CAD lettering and geometric tolerancing symbol font, the future market is probably
    fairly small, although the license price might be higher. <BR> <BR>3. I tend to
    do a lot of work up front when preparing a quote, particularly in terms of defining
    the glyph set. I usually do this in a spreadsheet, and keep track of which glyphs
    require individual design of outlines and which are composites. This enables me
    to base the bulk of my quote on a price per glyph for design, composite building,
    and hinting. Obviously things like OpenType Layout development, have to be estimated
    in terms of hourly rates, since they are not so easily quantifiable as designing
    and hinting, and the quote needs to be buffered so that clients can request additional
    glyphs at the last minute. I also add a full half day billable time for mastering
    each font, i.e. running through Font Validator, fixing table errors or inconsistencies,
    etc. I try to split testing duties with the client, but this is possible because
    most of my customers are software developers with their own testing departments.
    <BR> <BR>The best thing about basing quotes on glyph counts is that it allows
    one to be fairly precise, both in relating work to typical amounts of time for
    different tasks, and in providing a justifiable price. This is reassuring to both
    clients and to oneself, and much better than picking numbers out of the air. <BR>
    <BR>So this is my advice: try to break a project into specific tasks; estimate
    how long each task will take; figure out how much you want to be paid for that
    working time; multiply by the number of tasks; buffer. This will give you a basic
    price that will cover your work and keep you happy. Then add a percentage if the
    client if wants exclusive rights, either in perpetuity &#40;high percentage&#41;
    or for a limited time &#40;lower percentage&#41;. I&#39;m afraid I can&#39;t suggest
    what these percentages should be: by that stage you should have a feel for the
    client, and some sense of what their budget is likely to be.'
  created: '2004-04-20 18:22:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; It seemed more productive to me to focus on what &#42;goods&#42; they
    do seem to be willing to discuss <BR> <BR>You&#39;re right. I&#39;m sorry for
    snapping. <BR>Any insights &#40;not just hard prices&#41; are of course appreciated.
    <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>One piece of third-party knowledge I can share about &#34;exclusivity&#34;:
    some designers &#40;for example Carter&#41; generally give exclusivity for a short
    time, like 2-3 years. Although I guess this needs to vary depending on what the
    client needs, it seems to make sense in the case of magazines for example, since
    redesigns are about novelty, and there&#39;s no use tying up a design where it
    could serve the retail market later on. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-20 18:43:34'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: 'This is like the tenth or eleventh discussion on this <BR>that I can remember
    here ... <BR> <BR>In previous threads, I think $2000 to $4000 came up as a range.
    <BR> <BR>@ Hrant: I don&#39;t think John or James or anybody has <BR>any obligation
    to talk about pricing. They have <BR>competitors and those competitors will lurk
    <BR>here and use the information shared to nab <BR>work by underbidding. Keeping
    this information <BR>confidential is a key to their livelihood, is it not? <BR>
    <BR>just for the record, I pointed out the Larabie site <BR>because it&#39;s one
    of the few with a price. <BR> <BR>Of course, $500 is a hobbyist price! And Ray
    is a clearly a hobbyist.  <BR> <BR>In previous threads, I think even $1500 was
    <BR>called &#34;hobbyist&#34; pricing. <BR> <BR>I never did like the term <i>hobby</i>
    <BR> <BR>Nevertheless, the term doesn&#39;t have to be used so <BR>pejoratively
    considering there are considerably <BR>more <BR>type designing hobbyists than
    those who <BR>make their living as Type Designers. <BR> <BR>And of course, most
    of the professionals were <BR>hobbyists at some point. <BR> <BR>bj'
  created: '2004-04-20 19:30:21'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'James: Where does your lawyer teach the course? <BR>I&#39;m also here in
    New York and could use this kind of help &#40;obviously&#41;. Thanks for the ballpark
    numbers. <BR> <BR>John: You mention your glyph-based strategy is divided into
    composites and others. By this I assume you mean '
  created: '2004-04-20 19:30:36'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: I see now that John already pointed out <BR>why he doesn&#39;t share pricing
    info. <BR> <BR>bj
  created: '2004-04-20 19:35:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>You mention your glyph-based strategy is divided into composites and others.
    By this I assume you mean '
  created: '2004-04-20 19:43:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I have no idea how long it takes to draw a glyph. <BR> <BR>You know
    what&#39;s spooky? I once compared notes with Dan Carr &#40;the punchcutter&#41;,
    and the numbers were virtually the same! About 8 hours per glyph. But that&#39;s
    for works of the heart&#42;, not the stuff I generally whip up. <BR> <BR>&#42;
    Hmmm, as much a factor in hobbyism as in <i>quality?</i> Is Carr a hobbyist? <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-20 19:45:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Regarding revisions: <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve taken to including a clause in contracts
    that specifies a 60 day test period following delivery of the fonts, and any bugs
    reported during this time are corrected free of charge. If bugs are reported after
    the 60 day test period, I reserve the right to charge hourly rates for fixing
    them, at my discretion. The main purpose of this clause is to encourage the customer
    to seriously test the fonts as quickly as possible, so they&#39;re not coming
    back to me six months later when I&#39;m in the middle of another project.'
  created: '2004-04-20 19:47:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: BTW, this isn&#39;t just about custom pricing - I&#39;d like to hear about
    notable site license schemes too - like P22&#39;s is great - what others? <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-04-20 19:54:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Once I have the ideas in my head, it takes an average of 25 minutes per glyph.
    The shortest amount of time is probably five minutes: the longest is probably
    two hours, but that generally indicates that the idea in my head isn&#39;t quite
    right. Some letterforms are just plain difficult to get right: the Cyrillic <i>zhe</i>
    is a bugger. <BR> <BR>Of course, it is nice to have the luxury to take longer
    -- to put things aside for a few weeks and come back to them refreshed -- but
    generally there are deadlines to be met.'
  created: '2004-04-20 20:05:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; 25 minutes per glyph. <BR> <BR>Does that include spacing, hinting,
    etc.? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-20 20:07:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Here&#39;s how I would go about figuring out a rate for work for hire. <BR>
    <BR>Figure out how much annual salary you would like. Let&#39;s say $50,000 US.
    &#40;Which is actually pretty darn low for the software industry; I&#39;m assuming
    this is somebody early in their career.&#41; <BR> <BR>Add some amount for benefits
    and the like. If you aren&#39;t in a country with a real socialized medical system,
    say 50%. That&#39;s $75K. <BR> <BR>Also, add in the costs of buying computer hardware
    and software, books, attending conferences, and any other major work expenses
    you&#39;ll have. I&#39;ll assume you&#39;re working from your home and your home
    office space expenses are minor. Let&#39;s say all this is $10,000/yr. So now
    we&#39;re at $85K. <BR> <BR>Take into account what percentage of your time you
    expect to actually spend doing paid work for your clients. After all, your billable
    hours probably don&#39;t include all that time pitching ideas, doing research
    and study on your own, accounting, going to conferences, or even a vacation. I&#39;ll
    say half the time is real billable work. So that means I have to double my numbers
    again. Now we&#39;re at $170K. <BR> <BR>So, in this example one needs to charge
    a billing rate that would equal $170K annually, to live as if you were on a $50K
    salary. <BR> <BR>With about 250 working days per year, that would be $170K/250,
    or $680 per day. If we assume an 8-hour day, that&#39;s $85/hr. <BR> <BR>So that&#39;s
    how I would figure out an hourly rate for work for hire. I might have different
    numbers than the ones above, but that&#39;s the methodology I&#39;d use. <BR>
    <BR>If I&#39;m doing custom work but I get to keep the rights afterwards, I&#39;d
    base it off of the above rate. How much of a discount I&#39;d give would depend
    on many factors previously discussed, such as how re-usable the work is, who the
    client is, and the extent of their expected use. Unless the work was stuff I would
    have done anyway on my own, is for a non-profit I&#39;m in love with, or is clearly
    awesomely re-sellable, I&#39;d never go below half my normal rates. <BR> <BR>For
    fonts that one has already made, pricing is a very different issue. Here you need
    to look at it as a normal retail process and price based on those factors. <BR>
    <BR>So, those are my thoughts on pricing methodology. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-20 20:53:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Does that include spacing, hinting, etc.?</i> <BR> <BR>That includes basic
    spacing, but not kerning. It typically includes PS stem hinting, but obviously
    not manual TT hinting.
  created: '2004-04-20 21:41:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Randy: Speaking of, will there be a Font Business workshop at Typecon?  <BR>
    <BR>With Jim Wasco of Agfa Monotype I&#39;m doing a 1/2 day workshop aimed at
    helping type designers and software vendors work better together when it comes
    to licensing and custom font work - this will cover technical issues as well as
    business issues. I&#39;ve not heard of other business related workshops at TypeCon,
    but the list hasn&#39;t been posted yet. <BR> <BR>Cheers, Si <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-23 16:47:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Simon -- Will this be open to non type designer&#39;s as well? I&#39;d be
    very interested from perhaps a clients point of view.
  created: '2004-04-23 16:52:24'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Thanks for the heads up!
  created: '2004-04-23 18:28:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Thanks,  <BR> <BR>The workshop will be open to everyone. We hope to attract
    people from the software development community as well as type designers.  <BR>
    <BR>Cheers, Si
  created: '2004-04-24 21:41:52'
- author:
    name: plasmator
  body: "Pricing of work is not something unique to typography.  Every industry has
    one or more accepted ways of doing things, but there are some common themes.  In
    other words, this is a problem that has been solved time and time again.  Look
    not just to other typographers but also other industries for lessons in how to
    handle this component of your business.\r\n\r\nI cringe at Randy's strategy of
    providing an estimate and charging for hours spent above and beyond that estimate
    (even at a reduced rate).  In most industries that won't fly with serious clients.
    \ In fact, the exact opposite scenario is much more common:  an hourly rate with
    a 'not to exceed' amount above and beyond which the client doesn't pay extra.
    \ No, it's not as friendly to the producer but most markets behave as buyers'
    markets when it comes down to it and hence clients walk away without that sort
    of price guarantee.\r\n\r\nEqually bothersome is the following:\r\n\r\n\"First,
    decide what you would truely like to get for the work. Regardless of what you
    think the cleint is prepared to pay. What do you want? Then Triple it. \r\n\r\nIf
    when presented to the client, they don't blink, well, you could have gotten more,
    but you are getting triple of what you wanted. \r\n\r\nIf they do blink, or gasp,
    or pass out, you still could cut it in half, come off as someone who knows how
    to compromise, and still be getting a third more than you wanted.\"\r\n\r\nI have
    had this experience before from the client side.  I told them to hit the road,
    and they never got to bid our work again.  It's not about 'enjoying negotiations';
    I am as seasoned of a negotiator as they come, seasoned enough to know when you're
    wasting my time.  While you're at it, don't try and act like you're doing me some
    big favor by patronizing my desire to negotiate.  I fully expect to negotiate
    -- within 5 to 10 percent of the initial price.  Any more, and I feel like you
    have too much margin in it.  Any less, and I feel you don't have enough.  Yes,
    I really do expect you to make money off me; just not too much.  I also know your
    business well enough to know if this is the case.  That's part of being a successful
    businessperson, to know your vendors' businesses in addition to your own.  Even
    if I didn't, more likely than not I'm getting a bid from one or more of your competitors
    and I'll see right through any attempt to take advantage of me. \r\n\r\nBoth these
    strategies I list seem to result from a businessperson trying to mitigate risk.
    \ About that I'll say this:  risk management is all fine and good, but don't take
    it too far.  Focus more on refining the accuracy of your estimation process than
    ways to salvage a blown bid or win the lottery by having a clueless client take
    a high bid.  Repeated application of a consistent pricing scheme that includes
    a margin with which you're comfortable will win out every time over trying to
    hit it big and dialing back when you fail."
  created: '2008-12-31 23:22:18'
- author:
    name: Stinger
    picture: 123158
  body: '[track] - very useful discussion thanks!'
  created: '2011-09-13 15:09:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-11-10 22:16:24'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '...'
  created: '2012-11-10 22:16:38'
date: '2004-04-16 19:27:15'
title: Commercial & Custom Pricing
...
