---
author:
  name: peterc
body: I understand that Typetool is a kind of &#34;light edition&#34; of FontLab.
  Typetool 1.5 is on the newest Computer Arts CD and I
comments:
- author:
    name: addison
  body: Peter, <BR> <BR>I think TypeTool is a great place to start--it&#39;s what
    I&#39;m learning with myself. The price is affordable, plus it counts towards
    your purchase of FontLab when you&#39;re ready to move up. <BR> <BR>TypeTool incorporates
    all the features you need to create Type 1 and TrueType fonts from scratch. FontLab
    is much richer in features, but someone else like Adam Twardoch could elaborate
    better than I can... A big difference is the ability to create OpenType fonts.
  created: '2004-04-19 14:50:26'
- author:
    name: peterc
  body: Thanks Addison. But whats up with Opentype fonts - cant TypeTool make these?
    <BR> <BR>Im doing my glyphs in Illustrator so I dont really  need advanced tools
    for drawing inside FontLab/Typetool. I need features to actually &#34;make a font&#34;
    but thats fully possible with Typetool if I understand you right? <BR> <BR>What
    about building weights automatically - I know there
  created: '2004-04-20 12:20:34'
- author:
    name: addison
  body: I may not have this right, but I&#39;m pretty sure TypeTool lacks the capability
    to create OpenType fonts nor build multiple weights. <BR> <BR>Go to the <a href="http://www.fontlab.com/html/typetool.html"
    target="_blank">TypeTool site</a> and download the demo &#40;ver. 2&#41; and the
    manual. This would probably be the best way to find out if it has the features
    you&#39;re looking for. I tried a search on this site, but couldn&#39;t find exactly
    the answers you&#39;re looking for. You may try posting your questions in the
    &#34;build&#34; section.
  created: '2004-04-20 15:26:58'
- author:
    name: peterc
  body: Addison - Actually I already had downloaded the demo but now that you telling
    me that I, myself, have to find out...I actually did!;&#41; Tools - transform
    - effect is the way to make bolder wieghts in FL but theres no such in Typetool.
    A shame... <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-04-20 15:49:34'
- author:
    name: peterc
  body: Addison got a point btw - Can this thread somehow be moved to the Build board
    &#40;aha, billboard yeah right;&#41;!? Or shall I really do all the hard work
    myself.....
  created: '2004-04-20 20:47:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: moved
  created: '2004-04-20 21:07:50'
date: '2004-04-17 15:53:28'
title: Typetool vs. FontLab
...
