---
body: 'Hi, I started this off in the Script section the other day: <BR> <BR>&#40;see
  image 1 below&#41; <BR> <BR>It was supposed to have a renaissance feel, but I did
  some more reading, and came to the conclusion that it was too scripty, since a large
  part of renaissance type/printing was to move away from the handwritten process.
  The very beginning though, seemed to be an imitation of handwriting. For this font,
  I want that feeling to remain, but still look like a jump in the direction towards
  printing. So, I decided to add serifs to my calligraphy based letters. While it
  may look like Jenson or Centaur, I&#39;m hoping it has an even more calligraphic
  feel than both &#40;though slight&#41;. <BR> <BR>Earlier in the day I had this:
  <BR> <BR>&#40;see image 2 below&#41; <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve been comparing the letters
  to some renaissance pages in my design history books, and at this point, I&#39;ve
  worked my way up to this: <BR> <BR>&#40;see third image below&#41; <BR> <BR>Only
  a lowercase so far. My hope is that it will be good enough for short to medium length
  texts.  Please let me know what you think. <BR> <BR>Thanks!  <BR>'
comments:
- body: 'Couldn&#39;t upload.. had to link. <BR> <BR><a href="http://mywebpages.comcast.net/brian912/scan01.jpg">
    scan 1</a> <BR> <BR><a href="http://mywebpages.comcast.net/brian912/scan02.jpg">
    scan 2</a> <BR> <BR><a href="http://mywebpages.comcast.net/brian912/lowercase.gif">
    scan 3</a> <BR> <BR>Some of my concerns include: the width of the m, the s and
    r &#40;too much?&#41;, the crossbars in the f and t, and the weight overall, but
    mention anything that you notice. Thanks again. <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-20 05:09:03'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Bryan take a look at William Morri
  created: '2004-04-20 08:03:35'
- body: Thanks for the link. I wish I owned one of those books! Some very interesting
    things in the essay too &#40;hadn&#39;t read it before&#41;. What he says about
    Jenson is almost exactly what I was trying to do. I&#39;ve always admired the
    borders and layouts Morris did but have never really taken the time to study him
    &#40;which I will do while working on the font.&#41; <BR>  <BR>Going to make adjustments,
    and do a bit of work &#40;and reading&#41; before posting an update. If anyone
    has other comments on the lowercase, I&#39;m still open. I&#39;ll mostly be working
    on an uppercase and numbers for awhile, so I can work back and forth. <BR>Thanks
    again, <BR>Brian  <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.english.umd.edu/englfac/WPeterson/MFP/documents/9.html">
    Aims in Founding</a>
  created: '2004-04-20 20:05:30'
date: '2004-04-20 05:05:24'
title: 2nd try
...
