---
author:
  name: jim
body: I want to make some pdf font samples available on my web site, but I&#39;m concerned
  about security. I&#39;ve heard that the fonts can be extracted from pdfs. Is this
  true? Is there a way to protect against it? I&#39;ve asked a few friends and got
  a few different answers...all ending with, &#34;I&#39;m not really sure.&#34; <BR>Any
  advice would be welcome. If this has already been discussed and I wasn&#39;t paying
  attention, maybe someone could steer me to the thread. <BR> <BR>thanks. <BR> <BR>jim
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I&#39;ve concluded that the bottom-line answer is this: it&#39;s safe enough.
    <BR> <BR>Yes, anything can be hacked &#40;and that can even be seen as consolation
    for using PDF:-&#41;, but the marketing advantage of PDF far outweighs the small
    potential &#34;leak&#34; - and don&#39;t forget that people who buy your fonts
    won&#39;t always keep them to themselves anyway - so PDF or no there will be some
    piracy. <BR> <BR>As proof of sorts, note the number of high-end font houses that
    give out PDFs now: Adobe, FontBureau, virtually everybody. Also, there are ways
    of making PDFs even more secure, but I don&#39;t know much about that myself.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-23 00:40:07'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Jim - I agree with Hrant. The benefits far outweigh the relatively  <BR>minor
    risks. As far as I understand, it requires considerable  <BR>labor to hack a single
    font out of a PDF, and the result is much  <BR>less than the original - metrics
    are lost.
  created: '2004-04-23 02:05:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Metrics are not lost when a font is extracted from a PDF, but kerning is. '
  created: '2004-04-23 02:41:53'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Go for it Jim.
  created: '2004-04-23 03:08:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Jim, <BR> <BR>What does your EULA say about embedding, and what permissions
    do you set in your fonts? If you tell your customers they can&#39;t embed your
    fonts then I&#39;d say you shouldn&#39;t embed them yorself. If you allow embedding
    you don&#39;t really have anything to lose - except making life slightly easier
    for the hacker. <BR> <BR>Cheers, Si
  created: '2004-04-23 07:26:46'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Thanks John. My mistake.
  created: '2004-04-23 11:31:29'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: Convert to Curves, <BR>Convert to Curves, <BR>Why nobody doin da Convert to
    Curves... <BR> <BR>&#40;cue Fat Boys Human Beat Box accompaniment&#41;
  created: '2004-04-28 03:17:28'
- author:
    name: matt_desmond
    picture: 109993
  body: The only two things about converting to curves is that it makes the on-screen
    view pixelated &#40;When is Adobe going to fix that? Can they?&#41; and it makes
    the file size bigger.
  created: '2004-04-28 04:03:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: There&#39;s a view option in Acrobat called &#34;smooth line art&#34; that
    antialiases vector art. However even so, the on-screen display of fonts converted
    to curves isn&#39;t as good as of real fonts &#40;for reasons we&#39;ve discussed
    at painful length elsewhere&#41;. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-28 04:19:28'
- author:
    name: matt_desmond
    picture: 109993
  body: Thanks for enlightening me to that view option in Acrobat, Thomas. I learn
    something new every day.
  created: '2004-04-28 04:38:11'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Thomas: There&#39;s a view option in Acrobat called &#34;smooth line art&#34;
    that antialiases vector art. <BR> <BR>The question is: When will Adobe turn that
    option on by default?'
  created: '2004-04-28 14:14:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I&#39;m curious about this myself. I have enlightened many clients about this
    feature over the last year, because it isn&#39;t a default.
  created: '2004-04-28 16:52:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Even if it becomes a default in the next version of Acrobat, you&#39;ll have
    clients using older versions of Reader for many years to come. <BR> <BR>That being
    said, the reasons it hasn&#39;t been a default yet are: <BR> <BR>1&#41; Performance
    issues, especially on older machines or with particular docs with elaborate vector
    art. <BR> <BR>2&#41; In some documents at some zoom levels, it can sometimes cause
    undesirable visual artifacts. Mostly with abutting areas of fill, sometimes involving
    transparency. We&#39;re trying to reduce that problem. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-04-28 19:37:05'
date: '2004-04-22 23:56:10'
title: PDF Font Specimen Security
...
