---
author:
  name: union
  picture: 110556
body: 'I spent the last few days over in the Netherlands at a design event the town
  of Groninger. Not only was it an excellent event and a chance to meet up with Donald
  Beekman and Max Kisman, but on the way back I got the chance to stop off in Amsterdam.
  <BR> <BR>Unusually for an Englishman in Amsterdam I didn&#39;t head straight for
  the red light district of the Hash bars, but straight for the cities excellent design
  book stores. WOW! <BR> <BR>House Industries, have you got your hands on a copy of
  this book yet, full of Humour fonts and there story, and Dutch Type which is going
  to keep me reading for weeks &#40;and features both Beekman and Kisman&#41;. <BR>
  <BR>Has anyone got either of these books, what did you think? <BR> <BR>Jim <BR>===
  <BR> <BR>You can read a few words about the Groninger design event I wrote for a
  English design magazine here : <a href="http://www.hellofonts.com/dutch.html" target="_blank">http://www.hellofonts.com/dutch.html</a>'
comments:
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: I have Dutch Type.  <BR> <BR>While I don&#39;t care for Kisman and Beekman,
    the focus of the <BR>book is thankfully all inclusive. I&#39;m sure a few were
    missed, <BR>but the collection of Dutch type designers is exhausting. <BR>I could
    go on, but the major players all have great features <BR>that often include original
    sketches, specimens and excerpts <BR>from exlcusive interviews with the author.
    Nice, because <BR>many times the work of these designers is only shown with <BR>repeat
    FF specimens or well worn publicity promos. <BR> <BR>The focus on the complete
    spectrum of dutch type designers is  <BR>especially commendable, even the really
    young and unpublished <BR>Arnhem students.  <BR> <BR>Additionally, cultural and
    educational influences are discussed <BR>in small 1 to 3 page sections between
    many of the chapters. <BR>For instance, the Gerrit Noordzij influence, the Arnhem
    students etc. <BR> <BR>Also, I&#39;d be interested to hear reactions from readers
    of the book <BR>after reading 320 pages of Peter Verheul&#39;s new Versa.  <BR>I
    found myself really liking it.
  created: '2004-04-23 16:52:07'
date: '2004-04-23 16:30:18'
title: My special Amsterdam design porn
...
