---
author:
  name: peterc
body: I
comments:
- author:
    name: rjohnston
  body: 'Horses for courses -- I choose from a fairly limited selection based on criteria
    like ability to hold a colour image, opacity, flexibility at the printed size
    &#40;bigger usually=heavier&#41;. I have a few rules, like try to stay over 150gsm
    if there&#39;s going to be 4-colour &#40;otherwise you get a lot of show-through&#41;,
    but cost comes into that eqaution as well. I try to persuade people that a 64pp
    book on good paper is better than a 128pp book on poor paper &#40;I deal with
    artists&#39; books, so there&#39;s usually flexibility on the page length&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>I tend not to think in brands/types but in terms of coating and colour.
    Do you need triple-coated &#40;for colour images, it helps, but single-coated
    can look more &#39;bookish&#39;&#41;? How does the cover stock look with the text
    stock? A heavy, uncoated cover stock can look great with a really high-gloss text
    stock. <BR> <BR>One I like for text just now is G-Print: holds a colour image
    well but has a pleasing texture and a consistent single coating. Doesn&#39;t feel
    too plasticky, like many of the double- or triple-coated stocks. <BR> <BR>Of course,
    plastickyness can be exactly what you want sometimes, in which case Zanders Ikono
    does the trick. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m just musing here as I&#39;m finishing my morning
    coffee. Somebody else join in and shut me up. <BR> <BR>&#40;btw when I say &#39;text
    stock&#39; here I&#39;m using it to mean basically &#39;as opposed to cover stock&#39;.
    I know it&#39;s nicer to read text on a buff uncoated stock -- I just don&#39;t
    usually have that option&#41;. <BR> <BR>R <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-28 09:42:24'
- author:
    name: as8
    picture: 109877
  body: Vera Khlebnikova, Moscow <BR>19 July - 21 August  <BR>5 weeks &#40;Hohensalzburg
    Fortress&#41; <BR>Drawing - Collage - Book Object <BR><a href="http://tinyurl.com/ytvjh"
    target="_blank">http://tinyurl.com/ytvjh</a>
  created: '2004-04-28 10:30:17'
- author:
    name: peterc
  body: Robert thats the spirit - great!;&#41;
  created: '2004-04-28 10:59:15'
- author:
    name: peterc
  body: '...no more wise words to be spoken?'
  created: '2004-04-29 00:16:05'
date: '2004-04-27 19:30:33'
title: Paper &#40;neobond, munken, zanders, amber etc.&#41;
...
