---
author:
  name: hischier
body: This thread is the first of two regarding the 21st c. fine press. <BR> <BR>As
  a writer, the notion of self-publishing is loathsome to me
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Do as much solo as time and ability allow; delegate the rest. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2004-04-27 21:24:07'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: It nveer hruts to hvae a cpoy etidor, but if you want to take on the design
    part, more power to you.
  created: '2004-04-27 22:12:08'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: Stick with what you do best and supervise the people who know what they are
    doing with typesetting, printing or even editing &#40;deligate&#41;. If you stretch
    yourself out too much nothing will look or feel the way you think it should.
  created: '2004-04-27 22:22:06'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Brian <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve been a fine press printer-publisher for 28-1/2 years
    now, so I might have some words of advice though not necessarily of wisdom. Hire
    where you need. A good copy editor/proof reader is essential. If you are a writer,
    typographic designer, illustrator, you are already on your way to having the book
    completed. Which means no publisher is going to be interested, but they weren&#39;t
    going to be anyway. Publish it yourself. A fine and honorable tradition.  <BR>
    <BR>I had a manuscript a few years back that I shopped around a bit and then decided,
    hey, I&#39;ll just print this up on my laser printer &#40;I&#39;m actually a letterpress
    printer&#41;. It was, I have been told, the first laser printed book marketed
    to the trade. It&#39;s been like a little fast cash ATM machine. I was lucky though,
    it was a technical manual on an arcane subject and people wanted the information.  <BR>
    <BR>First I guess, is ask yourself, who beside &#34;me&#34; is going to be interested
    in this? and why? If it is pure self-indulgence, and there is nothing wrong with
    that mind you, you might think long and hard about the investment in money and
    labor, and will you be okay with that if as you say, the response is not to your
    hope. And by the way, most likely it won&#39;t. Publishing is more miss than hit.
    Hard to swallow but I have a lot of books in storage boxes that can attest to
    that. <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2004-04-29 07:14:08'
date: '2004-04-27 21:16:38'
title: 'Fine press, editing, setting the type: the problem of the self'
...
