---
body: 'Can I mix: <BR>opentype fonts, postscript fonts, <BR>a postscript printer,
  <BR>quark passport 4 in os9, <BR>photoshop 7 in osX, and <BR>illustrator 9 in os9?
  <BR> <BR>Is there anything that will activate fonts for both OSX and OS9 simultaneously?
  It looks like if I buy Extensis X1, that I would also have to buy Suitcase 10.2.2
  for Mac OS 9.2.2. Or, if you work in OS 9 and OS X simultaneously, what do you use?  <BR>
  <BR>The osX version I&#39;m using is 10.1, so I don&#39;t have the font tool included
  with newer versions of 10. How is that working for those who have it? And just to
  be sure, there isn&#39;t an ATM version that works with osX yet, right? Is adobe
  planning on it? <BR> <BR>Thanks! <BR>Brian <BR> <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Yes, you can mix these things. However, there is no font manager that runs
    on OS X which can activate OT fonts for Classic applications. But other than that
    restriction, I gather the latest font managers activate fonts for both X and Classic.
    Or do you run 9.2.2 as a separate boot-up? <BR> <BR>Adobe has said that there
    are no plans for an OS X version of ATM Deluxe. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-05-03 17:04:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I run Suitcase X-1 which does automatically open fonts in classic if needed
    &#40;and reports conflicts if you have 2 sets&#41; but if you actually boot in
    9.22 &#40;not Classic&#41;, X-1 is a Cocoa app so it won&#39;t even run.  Since
    the only thing I ever run these days in Classic is Quark 4.11 &#40;only if I must&#41;,
    it is hardly an issue.  I have never had a crash in OSX, which I certainly can&#39;t
    say for 9.x, so, unless many of your apps are pre-OSX, there is no reason to stay
    with 9&#39;s font problems.
  created: '2004-05-03 21:42:16'
- body: Yeah...I love the stability in osX. But I have a stylus color 1520, and epson
    won&#39;t update their printer driver! I want to use InDesign, but then I wouldn&#39;t
    be able to print with it. Unfortunately an upgrade on everything is a very long
    ways off. <BR>Hmm. I guess I could save as a PDF in InDesign and then print that
    from 9...
  created: '2004-05-04 18:38:12'
- body: Ah, well. <BR>Epson wrote me back about their driver. They gave me a link
    to a third party website that makes the printer fully compatible with osX. Haven&#39;t
    tested it, but in case anyone is in the same boat, here&#39;s the link. <BR> <BR><a
    href="http://gimp-print.sourceforge.net/MacOSX.php3" target="_blank">http://gimp-print.sourceforge.net/MacOSX.php3</a>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-05-05 03:36:20'
date: '2004-05-03 15:45:28'
title: Eclectic Recipe
...
