---
author:
  name: whoisdan
  picture: 110024
body: I was in a used-book store today and came across a cool and really old-looking
  &#34;Monotype Typefaces&#34; book from Lanston Monotype Machine Co. The only other
  info I could find on it was that it was printed in Philadelphia. I tried to buy
  it but the guy wanted to price it on the internet. I just did a quick search and
  only found something similar to the book on ebay, going for $6.50. <BR> <BR>My question
  is, how much does a spec book like this go for? This one isn&#39;t in good shape,
  but it&#39;s cool nonetheless. Also, once I have this thing, what do I do with it?
  :^&#41;
comments:
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Daniel <BR> <BR>There is currently a type specimen book mania among collectors
    on eBay. The book you were looking at might be worth $20 to $40, maybe a bit more.
    Much more to folks interested in metal Monotype and the code numbers etc. I have
    one. It is cool, not as cool as some, but not bad. Specimen books like this are
    often not in good shape &#40;as they were often extensively used&#41; and collectors
    seem to do an awful lot of upgrading. <BR> <BR>Recently on eBay there was a 1840s
    specimen book from the Bruce Type Foundry in abnormally excellent condition. Extraordinary
    rare. It was priced at $9.90 or something with no reserve and completely in the
    wrong category. The seller sold collector plates, not books. So... I thought,
    boy oh boy. I mean, boy oh boy. I even wrote to him to verify that it was the
    orginal and not a later reprint. Well, to make a long story short, &#34;they&#34;
    slowly found it. I believe it sold at $3,660. Probably what about it was worth
    to a university collection, which is where it should have gone. Can you imagine
    the party at the unsuspecting seller&#39;s home that night? <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2004-05-04 08:07:28'
- author:
    name: whoisdan
    picture: 110024
  body: Awesome info. There&#39;s currently a ton of smelly, old, beat up spec books
    at this shop. Do you have any idea when these Monotype spec books were made or
    where inside I can find a date?
  created: '2004-05-04 16:25:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Gerald, what a story! <BR>You should have driven there and offered him $100
    cash-on-the-barrelhead for it. <BR> <BR>Daniel, you can figure out the dates by
    looking at the fonts shown!  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-05-04 21:19:32'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Daniel <BR> <BR>Type specimen books are not often dated I&#39;m afraid to
    say. Sometimes you can find a code &#40;that might indicate date&#41; on the bottom
    of a page or there may be a letter or notice of date from the foundry early on
    in the book. Neither the Lanston nor the British Monotype books that I have are
    dated. There is a huge Monotype site in Switzerland that has tons of information
    of the most arcane sort. Might be worth a look see. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.letterpress.ch/content.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.letterpress.ch/content.html</a> <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2004-05-04 21:50:07'
date: '2004-05-04 04:40:26'
title: Monotype Typefaces Book
...
