---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: Can a designer that has designed an idendity for a company take ownership of
  that design? - and if the company wishes to change the idenity can the designer
  step in? <BR> <BR>I was always under the assumption that once the work was handed
  in - it was the companies property to do with as they wilt
comments:
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: I can&#39;t think of a case where a designer would maintain that kind of ownership
    over an identity system, nearly 100% of design work in the US is done as &#34;work-for-hire&#34;
    meaning that all rights to the work belong to the company that paid for the work
    to be done.
  created: '2003-06-26 18:52:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: <i>&#34;Under copyright law, any exclusive use of a design or artwork licensed
    by a client must be transferred in writing.&#34;</i> Get yourself a copy of the
    Graphic Artists Guild Handbook and read Chapter 13, Standard Contracts &amp; Business
    Tools.  <BR> <BR>What Sean states is true, but only because that is what has become
    the assumed method of business. For myself, I&#39;ve made it a necessary evil
    to discuss usage and ownership with a client from the very beginning. I&#39;ve
    only had a few horrible instances where I&#39;ve handed over the actual artwork
    &#40;digital files&#41; to my clients, or rather long-since-fired to-live-a-much-happier-life
    clients. Yes, I fire my clients from time to time. Not a practice, nor habit.
    Just used to save my sanity.
  created: '2003-06-26 19:02:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ''
  created: '2003-06-26 19:17:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I fire my clients from time to time. <BR> <BR>Good for you! <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve
    only done that once. But boy, you should have witnessed the 10-minute diatribe.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-26 20:55:02'
- author:
    name: graficartist
    picture: 110450
  body: But if your work for a company as an employee, then all the work you do is
    owned by the company, true?
  created: '2003-06-27 00:51:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: True. Unless you were for an ad agency or design studio, then the above still
    applies. But, I would think the design studio wouldn&#39;t have a problem with
    you including the work you did in your own portfolio.
  created: '2003-06-27 01:04:14'
date: '2003-06-26 16:48:37'
title: A question
...
