---
author:
  name: hischier
body: Greetings all. Thanks for your responses a week or so ago
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: You can use UV lamination?  :-/ <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-05-06 21:51:44'
- author:
    name: hischier
  body: That&#39;s an interesting suggestion. It brings up the &#34;perceived fragility&#34;
    issue, something I sensed was quietly underlying the amazing discussion on the
    &#34;transitions from metal to digital&#34; thread, which was very helpful, by
    the way
  created: '2004-05-06 22:56:52'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Can a book printed with an inkjet printer on high quality paper, cut, folded,
    hand bound and carefully designed &amp; illustrated still be considered &#34;fine
    press&#34;?  <BR> <BR>Brian <BR> <BR>If the optimal word here is &#34;carefully.&#34;
    yes. Technology does not govern quality. The great southern Californian fine printer
    and typographer Saul Marks modestly called himself a &#34;careful&#34; printer.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve produced books on the laser printer with as much care and concern
    as I would have with the letterpress process. Compared to most other laser printed
    books I&#39;ve seen I&#39;d like to think mine turned out on a higher quality
    note because I put the extra effort in to making them that way. <BR> <BR>The term
    &#34;fine press,&#34; by the way, doesn&#39;t go all that far back. Probably not
    much before the 1970s. <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2004-05-07 07:31:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I think &#39;fine&#39; has more to do with the craftsmanship and quality of
    materials than the technology used. <BR> <BR>If you go with inkjet, look into
    archival inks &#40;pigment based&#41;. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-05-07 15:10:32'
- author:
    name: benkiel
    picture: 110356
  body: Also be prepared to spend a lot on paper, look at Concorde Rag, it&#39;s the
    best printing book weight inkjet paper that can be had, its just not cheap at
    all &#40;$80 for 25 sheets of 13x19&#41;
  created: '2004-05-07 15:19:06'
- author:
    name: hischier
  body: The move towards investment is the one I&#39;m considering, hence these unfortunately
    cloying questions. I&#39;m am very encouraged that work on a limited &#40;and
    for the moment, inexpensive&#41; basis is still taken seriously.  <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2004-05-07 16:22:58'
date: '2004-05-06 21:48:20'
title: 'Fine press on inkjet: oxymoron?'
...
