---
author:
  name: johnwashington
body: Hi all <BR> <BR>I am trying to understand why so many of the swiss posters have
  type that appears to be set very close to the page edge. Does anyone here know the
  reason for this. I personally like the tension it creates but would love to know
  the thinking behind it.
comments:
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: John, I can think of many Swiss posters that don&#39;t follow this  <BR>
  created: '2003-06-29 23:47:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'The margin is only a frame if you see typography as art. But when you see
    it as craft, the margin is simply a functional element: the white without which
    the black cannot be happy. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-30 03:22:17'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: Well, one of the criticisms leveled at the New Typography and the  <BR>subsequent
    concrete typography was that they - like art - treated  <BR>type blocks as mere
    grey shapes, to be manipulated on the graphic  <BR>space. But modern functional
    typography comes <i>from</i> and <i>after</i> this,  <BR>not from that which existed
    before. In any case, <i>
  created: '2003-07-02 05:33:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; tired, loaded <BR> <BR>Overloaded, yes. But if we look with fresh eyes
    they don&#39;t need to be tired. The Art/Craft duality is I think at the heart
    of all of this. <BR> <BR>&#62; You should read Aicher on that. <BR> <BR>I have!
    And Ovink too - a wonderful pragmatist. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-02 16:02:53'
date: '2003-06-29 13:13:48'
title: Swiss type setting in poster work
...
