---
author:
  name: longlegzs80
body: I want to create a website, and these are really the only 2 programs that I
  have on my computer.  I don&#39;t know how to do a webpage in either program but
  that is not really too much of an issue at this point.  I was just curious as far
  as size of a webpage goes, what size one should be.  I don&#39;t want it to be to
  big, possibly a standard size.  What is a standard size of a website?  Curious too
  since I have both programs what would be the best to recommend doing a website in.  I
  don&#39;t have the other programs like DReamweaver or go live, but if someone can
  give me some advice as far as what program would be best for a new timer, that would
  be great.  Thanks.
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I use DreamWeaver, and it automatically determines &#34;safe&#34; areas for
    you, depending on your target monitor setting. As for what&#39;s a good target
    monitor setting to choose, 800x600 is the best general bet, but you could go to
    1024x768 if your target demographic is sufficiently high-end to justify it. <BR>
    <BR>BTW, if you want to break the mold without breaking any browsers, consider
    going horizontal, like this: <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com" target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com</a>
    <BR>The height is determined to fit in a 800x600 display &#40;while allowing 640x480
    users to scroll down once, and then scroll only horizontally, with the [low-relevance]
    &#34;header&#34; cropped&#41;, and the widths were determined to the pixel to
    provide nice even jumps of the scroll bar in virtually any browser without little
    bits left at the end. Actually, this was only true until about a year ago... I&#39;ve
    gotta update my widths for current browsers.  :-/ <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-07 05:51:15'
- author:
    name: roballoo
    picture: 110497
  body: For a good general reference on creating a web site check out <a href="http://www.webmonkey.com"
    target="_blank">http://www.webmonkey.com</a> where they have a wide variety of
    articles, tips and tutorials to help you out.  <BR> <BR>Head straight for the
    Quick Reference section and the How To Library on the right of the page. Of special
    note is their Browser Chart which I&#39;ve used many times as a reference &#40;which
    at last check pretty much echoes the 600x800 spec Hrant gives above&#41;.  <BR>
    <BR>The writing style is light hearted without dumbing down the info and they
    don&#39;t bog you down with too much text ~ just enough to get your feet wet in
    the subject at hand. <BR> <BR>Besides the Monkey, I also recommend <a href="http://www.designinteract.com"
    target="_blank">http://www.designinteract.com</a> for further articles on the
    design of web sites. In particular, I found their Site of the Week useful for
    good concise reviews of a wide variety of sites. <BR> <BR>===&#62;&#62; <BR> <BR>ImageReady
    is the better program for creating web sites and graphics. Although PhotoShop
    will work, IR has more webcentric features &#40;BTW ~ is anybody else out there
    waiting for the day when Adobe will simply merge the two programs and make our
    lives that much easier?&#41; <BR> <BR>Adobe&#39;s products &#40;of course&#41;
    work best with their own web solution, GoLive. However, I prefer DreamWeaver.
    It&#39;s a very robust program and has a lot of helps for setting up a page for
    the target audience &#40;as Hrant mentioned above&#41;. Perhaps best of all is
    their try before you buy 30 day trial version you can download from their site.
    As my DreamWeaver teacher told me, &#34;if you can create it in 30 days, you can
    do it for free!&#34; <BR> <BR>Other things to think about besides screen resolution
    is the speed of the target audience&#39;s internet connection. Are they on a modem?
    Cable? DSL? And the platform ~ Mac? PC? Linux? Palm? Cell phone?&#40;ugh!&#41;
    <BR> <BR>===&#62;&#62; <BR> <BR>Hrant&#39;s suggestion of a horizontal scrolling
    web site is a great way to try something different, but be careful ~ it&#39;s
    easy to let novelty get in the way of functionality.  If you want to try it, study
    Hrant&#39;s and see why it works. <BR>
  created: '2003-07-07 07:34:16'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: I would strongly recommend learning the nuts and bolts of HTML. While my tools,
    like Hrant and Roballoo, are ImageReady and Dreamweaver, DW will occasionally
    not do what you want it to do, in which case you&#39;ll need to go into the HTML
    and see what&#39;s going wrong. I personally like Peachpit Press books, though
    I don&#39;t know their current lineup of HTML books. But I&#39;d look at them
    first and see whether you like their style.
  created: '2003-07-07 21:15:32'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: Being a print designer first, I had a hard time working at 100%, meaning that
    I have to refrain from zooming into the artwork/layout because it doesn&#39;t
    really affect it. Always, always work at 100% &#40;command-alt-0&#41; what you
    see is what you get. Another print habit that I have is zooming out so I can see
    the overall layout, I also squint my eyes very professionally. If you zoom out
    it looks like &#149;&#149;&#149;&#149; &#42;, so don&#39;t zoom out.  <BR> <BR>I
    always use ImageReady, Photoshop tends to alter the color when saving for web
    &#40;I&#39;m serious.&#41; I also enjoy Dreamweaver profusely, whatever it can&#39;t
    do I simply hand code it. If it is easier for you to learn software programs than
    programming languages &#40;HTML&#41; I&#39;d say start with some tutorials on
    DW and you will slowly learn and understand what the HTML is doing. <BR> <BR>&#42;
    What the hell? Is there no cursing on this site? &#149;&#149;&#149;&#149;, &#149;&#149;&#149;&#149;,
    &#149;&#149;&#149;&#149;&#149;&#149;&#149;... nope, there isn&#39;t. Cool.
  created: '2003-07-07 21:51:04'
date: '2003-07-07 05:14:49'
title: IMAGE READY OR PHOTOSHOP....
...
