---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: ' Several issues ago, Fast Company started using a new text face. Does anyone
  else here read this mag? They were using Electra &#40;very well IMO&#41; until several
  other wannabe business magazines started. I love this magazine and think the design
  to be one of the best current mags out there. Anyway, I really have become obsessed
  by the type they are using for there body text. I know the sans is Griffith Gothic
  by Font Bureau, so I am assuming the body type might be a privately held face also
  by Font Bureau. Any ideas? '
comments:
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'I&#39;m pretty sure it&#39;s Tyfa, originally from Storm Type Foundry and
    now licensed by ITC. <BR> <BR>I love this face, and thinks it&#39;s great that
    a major publication had the courage to use it, &#39;cuz it&#39;s not the usual
    safe choice. <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.stormtype.com" TARGET="_top">http://www.stormtype.com</A>
    <BR><A HREF="http://www.itcfonts.com" TARGET="_top">http://www.itcfonts.com</A>
    <BR> <BR>From the ITC site: <BR> <BR>More Information About this Typeface: <BR>The
    original metal face of Czech artist and designer Josef Tyfa&#39;s eponymous design
    was cut for Linotype and was released in Czechoslovakia in 1959 by Grafotechna.
    It was inspired by the work of architect P.L. Nervi, whose courage and elegance
    Tyfa admired. &#34;In the past,&#34; says Tyfa, &#34;type design was primarily
    based on the esthetic values of the faces; mine were inspired by the forms of
    modern architecture.&#34; Frantisek Storm, who began digitizing the typeface under
    Tyfa&#39;s direction in the autumn of 1995, feels the design shows &#34;a little
    touch of baroque typography.&#34; In structure it&#39;s a modern-style typeface,
    with a vertical axis, a pronounced difference between thick and thin strokes,
    and thin serifs with no bracket joining them to the stems. But the curves and
    the variations of thick and thin show an exuberance far beyond most neoclassical
    &#34;modern&#34; types. The italic, especially, is almost elastic in its changing
    forms, with little round balls terminating some of the almost-swash thin strokes.
    While it&#39;s certainly possible to see the influences and echoes of older Czech
    type designers, such as Oldrich Menhart, in Tyfa&#39;s work, ITC Tyfa is not a
    &#34;national&#34; type design but an international one with a distinctive character
    all its own.'
  created: '2002-04-01 18:04:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ' thank you. '
  created: '2002-04-02 17:49:29'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' You&#39;re welcome. I love Fast Company too -- have been a fan of Patrick
    Mitchell&#39;s art direction since he was at Garbage &#40;anybody remember that
    publication?&#41; years ago. <BR> <BR>As far as sans serifs go, I think Fast Company
    is  using Benton Gothic these days. Griffith Gothic was originally commissioned
    for the magazine, and they&#39;ve gone through a bunch of them since, including
    DIN, Conduit&#40;!&#41; and Knockout. '
  created: '2002-04-02 22:33:47'
date: '2002-04-01 17:31:14'
title: Fast Company - ITC Tyfa {Marc O}
...
