---
author:
  name: kris
body: Our type tutor said that the traps used on bell centennial were modelled after
  the shape of the crimping of the glass on cathode ray tubes. I thought the shapes
  were arbitrary. Were they, to anyone&#39;s knowledge, modelled after anything or
  nothing? thanky sai.
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Kris -- <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve never heard this explanation. It sounds suspicious
    to me. <BR> <BR>The creation of Bell Centennial was made necessary because of
    the switch from hot-metal Linotype to Cathode Ray Tube technology. The traps were
    introduced to compensate for effects of CRT exposure and ink spread on cheap paper.
    The early CRT technology was basically like bitmaps; there was no such thing as
    smooth, device-independent outlines. Matthew drew the letterforms for Bell Centennial,
    laboriously, on quadrille &#40;graph&#41; paper. Any given notch might be comprised
    of maybe 8 or 10 &#34;pixels&#34; -- not really enough resolution to model them
    after much of anything. <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t say definitively that they weren&#39;t
    modelled after glass crimps, but I find it doubtful. <BR> <BR>-- K.
  created: '2003-07-16 12:32:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: kris, that&#39;s pretty inventive! But I agree with Kent that it seems pretty
    hoaky. <BR> <BR>The only thing it would make sense to model the traps on is the
    invert of a circle. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-16 16:11:31'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'can i found it free ? this bell Bell Centennial '
  created: '2004-03-19 00:53:10'
- body: <i>Of course</i> you can find it for free! <BR> <BR>Even easier; e-mail agfa-monotype
    and they will send you a CD, free of charge. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-19 11:35:17'
date: '2003-07-16 01:45:34'
title: Trapping bell
...
