---
author:
  name: snowboard
  picture: 110265
body: I am looking to source the font TF Arrow, do you know where I can purchase it?
comments:
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: The site is crazy, but you should find it here; <BR><a href="http://www.treacyfaces.com/"
    target="_blank">http://www.treacyfaces.com/</a> <BR> <BR>Good luck. <BR>
  created: '2003-07-16 05:13:58'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'My studio, Treacyfaces, is continually busy. So, I don&#39;t get the luxury
    of hanging out here as much as I would like. I&#39;ve just noticed the above post.
    <BR> <BR>In the current iteration of our treacyfaces.com &#40;up now for about
    a year&#41;, one can get pretty much anywhere - especially to all crucial services
    - in one click.  <BR> <BR>I believe that&#39;s called ideal convenience. <BR>
    <BR>Indeed, we sell a lot of fonts via the site, and complaints probably amount
    to 1 in 5000 unique accesses. &#40;You can&#39;t be all things to all people.&#41;  <BR>
    <BR>Yet, we&#39;re bookmarked constantly. We&#39;re returned to constantly. We&#39;re
    purchased from constantly.  <BR> <BR>This year, our 19th in the type business,
    has already become our biggest sales year yet. <BR> <BR>We have always designed
    treacyfaces.com to be accessible to the greatest number of people possible. <BR>
    <BR>Unlike some sites, we choose not to shut out or frustrate some users by forcing
    browser or plug-in upgrades right at the entry. I want a happy prospect coming
    through the door, not one or one who feels frustrated or shunned. <BR> <BR>About
    the TFArrow inquiry above and what came of it: <BR> <BR>The inquirer asked good
    questions by e-mail.  <BR> <BR>As is typical for us, they were promptly provided
    well delineated buying information plus supplemental customized specimens to base
    a knowledgeable license purchase on.  <BR> <BR>With personal service, we also
    ensured that the font/weight combination was an exact match. <BR> <BR>The inquirer&#39;s
    company promptly purchased the license they needed. <BR> <BR>Looking back at the
    transaction details, I believe that the customer received our typically excellent
    brand of customer service, receiving their license materials promptly.  <BR> <BR>There
    have been no customer complaints from that buyer, nor from any of our world wide
    customers who purchased via treacyfaces.com last week. <BR> <BR>For instance,
    here&#39;s one from Australasia who ordered a 4-weight volume this week using
    treacyfaces.com&#39;s quick, one-page online order form:  <BR> <BR>&#34;Thank
    you for your great service. Very quick and easy with the personal touch! I will
    not hesitate to use your service again.&#34; <BR> <BR>This is actually the kind
    of enthusiasm we are greeted with continually. Of course, I thank our customers
    for it. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-20 15:39:48'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Joe, <BR> <BR>I am a ludite from the word go. I am still building the Lanston
    Site. Ordering systems are not launched yet. I admire yours. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.lanstontype.com/LanstonPriceList.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.lanstontype.com/LanstonPriceList.html</a> <BR> <BR>So
    I tested your site guess what, no complaint. It works just fine. Easy to buy.
    <BR> <BR>Nice offerings I might add. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa <BR>Oy Lanston Type
    Co. Ltd. [Finland] <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-20 16:06:23'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Hi, Gerald - <BR> <BR>What an interesting byproduct of writing today!  <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;m glad to know where you are, and that you&#39;re well. Good luck with
    your endeavors keeping Lanston vibrant. <BR> <BR>Thanks for the kind words, as
    well. <BR> <BR>Joe
  created: '2003-07-20 17:25:46'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Gerald, I should add: Your Lanston site is lovely to look at. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll
    be spending more time with it later today, to be sure. <BR> <BR>-Joe'
  created: '2003-07-20 17:29:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I think that was a bit too close to being advertising &#40;but that&#39;s
    just me&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-20 17:54:05'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Hi, Hrant - <BR> <BR>Which? My post? <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-20 19:49:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Yeah - sorry. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-21 02:13:45'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hi, Hrant - <BR> <BR>No need to apologize, sir.  <BR> <BR>I apologize to
    the group, certainly, if it was too adlike. It wasn&#39;t meant to be addy and
    I did consider it carefully, trying to limit word length and trying to keep it
    non-commercial.  <BR> <BR>Thanks for checking me on it. <BR> <BR>By the way: One
    great byproduct of the thread for me was the surprise of a letter from Mr Giampa.
    After not talking with him for probably a decade or more &#40;for no particular
    reason&#41;, I was very happy to hear that he&#39;s well and still tirelessly
    devoted to keeping the Lanston collection vibrant as ever.  <BR> <BR>A tip of
    the Aring to him for his long term devotion to quality! Congratulations, Gerald.
    <BR> <BR>I plan to head back to his site now for a longer look. What I saw of
    it earlier today was a genuine visual treat. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-21 03:08:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; A tip of the Aring <BR> <BR>:-&#62; <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>BTW, you might
    want to check out this particular thread: <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12686.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/12686.html</a> <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-21 03:22:17'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Hi, again - <BR> <BR>Thanks very much.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m currently still
    reeling from all the interesting info and photos on Mr Giampa&#39;s site. &#40;I
    just returned from the virtual PEI tour. Wish I had packed the virtual DEET. Virtual
    OUCH! Those mosquitoes!&#41; <BR> <BR>The Optical Size discussion you note is
    surely interesting, yet I think that Mr Hudson has said everything that needs
    saying, in a way. I agree with his overall perspective on it, as written. <BR>
    <BR>An aside: I mourn the passing of Multiple Masters from a technological point
    of view, but I&#39;ve always imagined that it created endless gymnastics for the
    designers who worked to shoehorn their designs into it. Along the lines of all
    the &#39;regularization&#39; technique discussions that used to take place in
    the late &#39;80s and early &#39;90s, for defining seemingly ideal PostScript
    fonts. <BR> <BR>Take care. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-21 03:49:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Mr Hudson has said everything that needs saying <BR> <BR>I think Harry
    Carter might not agree!  :-&#41; Not that much of what John wrote doesn&#39;t
    make sense, but certainly it&#39;s not all so easily pinned down in two or three
    paragraphs. <BR> <BR>&#62; it created endless gymnastics <BR> <BR>Only because
    Adobe didn&#39;t bother to automate any of it, or even just make it more user-friendly.
    <BR> <BR>Do you plan on implementing optical compensation -with or without an
    MM axis- in your fonts eventually? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-21 04:16:16'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Am I missing something or is there no way to see the Treacyfaces fonts without
    either getting the print catalogue or using the awkward type sampler?
  created: '2003-07-21 05:25:29'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: Dear Joe, <BR> <BR>I am most embarrassed. My site is in the middle of a serious
    format change. Hopefully it has not caused you problems, or concerns that I had
    lost my touch. I am certainly very flattered. A compliment from someone I hold
    in such high regard means alot to an old man like myself. <BR> <BR>You are a gentleman
    to be sure. <BR> <BR>Perhaps I am a little out of date? Everyone else seems to
    have a site that reminds me of sitting in a jet plane. I am still on a horse and
    buggy. <BR> <BR>But I sometimes get a good view of things. <BR> <BR>Unfortunately
    not as good as I wish or I could make my web site work like yours. <BR> <BR>I
    am very interested in your work. Jim Rimmer and I, by the way, are fans of yours.
    Take that for a compliment! <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa <BR>Lanston Type Company. <BR>
    <BR>
  created: '2003-07-21 09:45:05'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Hi, Hrant - <BR> <BR>&#62;Do you plan on implementing  <BR>&#62;optical compensation
    - <BR>&#62;with or without an MM axis- in your fonts <BR>&#62;eventually? <BR>
    <BR>It&#39;s a possibility. I&#39;ve looked at the concept of Optical Sizes and
    thought about it for as long as we&#39;ve been in business. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>
  created: '2003-07-21 12:39:07'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Dear Chris Anemone - <BR> <BR>&#62;Am I missing something or is  <BR>&#62;there
    no way to see the Treacyfaces  <BR>&#62;fonts without either getting the print
    <BR>&#62;catalogue or using the awkward type sampler? <BR> <BR>The individual
    showings were recently removed because I grew frustrated with them. More, and
    better, showings will be posted shortly. Orders and custom type work come first
    here, so often, the site work lags a little. Sorry about your experience with
    our typesampler. <BR> <BR>New specimens will be up soon. &#40;I&#39;d suggest
    the catalog, but I don&#39;t want to sound too commercial....&#41; <BR> <BR>;-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>
  created: '2003-07-21 12:46:33'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: To Gerald Giampa &#40;and to Jim Rimmer&#41; - <BR> <BR>Thanks very kindly.
    I enjoy your type work very much, too. Consistently excellent. No small feat.
    <BR> <BR>Gerald, I sincerely enjoyed every bit of your site. I hadn&#39;t seen
    it before, and I was especially pleased to be filled in on the history, all your
    travails over the past decade, and what you&#39;re doing now. All, terrific. <BR>
    <BR>Joe <BR>
  created: '2003-07-21 12:52:44'
date: '2003-07-16 04:56:21'
title: Looking to source TF Arrow font
...
