---
author:
  name: kristin
  picture: 110305
body: 'It&#39;s Mom here, with a suggestion to any TypeCon presenters who post or
  lurk here.  <BR> <BR>This year we had the amazing contributions of a professional
  AV person, JP Porter, who volunteered to run the show. I think she did fabulous
  work. I kept on asking her if she needed help or if I could bring her anything --
  she never asked for a thing and had everything under control.  <BR> <BR>Please consider
  sending her and her company a card or letter of thanks and admiration. E-mail is
  OK, too, but cards can get hung up on the wall to impress the world! Here is her
  contact information: <BR> <BR>JP Porter <BR>Shoot the Moon Productions <BR>5104
  26th Ave So <BR>Minneapolis, MN 55417 <BR><a href="mailto:shootthemoon@usinternet.com">shootthemoon@usinternet.com</a>
  <BR> <BR>Special note: we typographers can impress her by not placing periods in
  her name per her request! <BR> <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: That&#39;s an excellent idea, Kristin. I found JP incredibly helpful and efficient.
    I normally do presentations using my own laptop, and was initially a bit concerned
    about having to provide files to be loaded and run from an unfamiliar machine,
    but JP made it all incredibly easy. [Thanks also to Bruno Steinert for lending
    me his flash media adaptor for the transfer.]
  created: '2003-07-25 02:28:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; flash media adaptor <BR> <BR>Wazzat? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-25 05:01:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Yes, Kristin, thanks for the suggestion. Despite the odd, infrequent hiccup,
    things went incredibly smoothly. Much more so than in years past.  <BR> <BR>--
    K.
  created: '2003-07-25 12:05:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Flash media adaptor: PCMCIA card or, in this case, USB adaptor for Flash
    card storage &#40;the kind used in a lot of digital cameras&#41;.'
  created: '2003-07-25 20:39:37'
date: '2003-07-24 15:16:38'
title: TypeCon2003 presenters -- a suggestion
...
