---
author:
  name: Giacomo Cesana
  picture: 110320
body: I&#39;m looking for a font similar to InterFace. <BR>I was going to use it to
  set text in a magazine, then my boss said that the @ was hardly legible &#40;I can
  agrrrree, but I like that @ a lot&#41;, and I was forced to choose another font.
  <BR>Now I&#39;m oriented to adopt Bliss from Jeremy Tankard. <BR>I also thougth
  to use Formata or Syntax, but I feel like I need something more &#34;fresh&#34;.
  <BR>Hope you can help me. <BR>Momo
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Maybe Interface is a bit bland/corporate for a magazine. You&#39;re right,
    fresh is good. <BR> <BR>Do you have IndieFonts specimen book? &#40;ShinnType should
    have been in it, but the timing was wrong for me.&#41; Anyway, have a look through,
    you will find many fresh sanses, shown in text setting! <BR> <BR>eg Reform, Jigsaw,
    Hydrous, Faceplate, Default, &#40;yeah, Psyops, straight ahead&#41;, Modus, District,
    Malmo, etc.
  created: '2003-08-02 17:55:28'
- author:
    name: Giacomo Cesana
    picture: 110320
  body: I unfortunately don&#39;t have IndieFonts, you know, I&#39;m a student so
    short on money
  created: '2003-08-02 18:50:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;I unfortunately don&#39;t have IndieFonts, you know, I&#39;m a student
    so short on money'
  created: '2003-08-02 20:20:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; seems like everybody took fun drawing gs <BR> <BR>More like they couldn&#39;t
    figure out how to make it right... It&#39;s the single hardest character in Latin.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Bliss, Kievit or Faceplate? <BR> <BR>Those are very different fonts!
    <BR>Kievit is the God of Genericity, while Bliss and certainly Faceplace aren&#39;t.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-02 21:22:10'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: Those IndieFonts books are great! Not cheap, mind you. Is there a discount
    if I buy both at the same time?
  created: '2003-08-02 21:39:42'
date: '2003-08-02 14:03:30'
title: Fonts similar to Dalton Maag&#39;s InterFace
...
