---
author:
  name: kris
body: 'I was in a web design firm the other day, and the talk turned, naturally, to
  typefaces. I asked the web designer about typefaces and the prolific pirating of
  pretty much all typefaces, especially in design schools. He had an interesting and
  insightful comment about paying for typefaces, that &#34;it&#39;s against the spirit
  of typography&#34;. It is probably quite indicative of a lot of people&#39;s attitudes
  towards type: to expect payment is nonsense because one creates type for the love
  of it.  <BR> <BR>it was quite crushing. when i asked my type tutor whether he paid
  for his typefaces he scowled and said &#34;don&#39;t get all purist on me. how am
  i supposed to teach if i don&#39;t have the fonts?&#34; <BR> <BR>It starts from
  the ground up. How do other type tutors instill a sense of ethics in their students?   '
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Hi, Kris, <BR> <BR>You could try asking the web designer about whether getting
    paid for his design work is against the spirit of art. <BR> <BR>For your type
    tutor, ask if he pirates his software as well. If not, why not? <BR> <BR>Regards,
    <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-08-03 23:25:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Kris, send them over here. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-03 23:37:55'
- author:
    name: keith_tam
    picture: 110414
  body: '<i>He had an interesting and insightful comment about paying for typefaces,
    that &#34;it&#39;s against the spirit of typography&#34;. It is probably quite
    indicative of a lot of people&#39;s attitudes towards type: to expect payment
    is nonsense because one creates type for the love of it.</i> <BR> <BR>Give me
    a break! Type designers are people too. They need to eat, live, and buy useless
    crap like everybody else. It&#39;s not like we charge an arm and a leg for our
    work; we in fact get paid peanuts. If paying for typefaces is &#39;against the
    spirit of typography&#39;, then designers '
  created: '2003-08-04 00:37:33'
- author:
    name: sham
  body: 'What spirit of typography is this individual referring to?  <BR> <BR>I suppose
    it&#39;s a bit like insurance, folks think someone else is paying for it. Same
    for worker&#39;s compensation fraud. I lump all these criminals together and find
    no need to associate with them. <BR> <BR>As far as students pirating fonts, it
    seems that design schools should either supply legitamate fonts as part of the
    tuition, that instructors should require that the student supply a copy of their
    license to the legal department of the school for records, and that anyone using
    an illegal font receives an incomplete for the lesson.  <BR> <BR>I am mean. '
  created: '2003-08-04 02:24:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;How do other type tutors instill a sense of ethics in their students?
    <BR> <BR>I teach a course at York University that&#39;s part of a BA program in
    graphic design. The course is &#34;design a typeface&#34;. This shows students
    what goes into making a typeface/font. <BR> <BR>It also helps that I am a type
    designer: putting a face on the victim should make the crime less likely.  <BR>
    <BR>As well as myself, Val Fullard and Paul Sych are two other published type
    designers who teach this course.'
  created: '2003-08-04 02:49:45'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Nick Shinn said <BR> <BR>&#62; I teach a course at York University... <BR>
    <BR> <BR>Congratulations! I admire anyone in the field who can take the time to
    &#39;give back&#39;, by way of teaching. <BR> <BR>Can anyone think of a way of
    getting some sort of &#39;bulletin&#39; out to design teachers across the spectrum
    of schools, to remind them of the ethics of use of fonts? <BR> <BR>Is/are there
    any well established organization/s that most such teachers are fairly guaranteed
    to belong to? <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-04 04:50:07'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: When I was in school, we had access to any typeface you could find a complete
    copy of... in a book. I comped a lot of headline type by hand. Even in the early
    90s, it was assumed that the body type would be provided by the typesetter. You
    didn&#39;t key in your own type, if it was a headline you either drew it or ordered
    it. So, essentially, the fonts were free, you paid for someone&#39;s time, or
    you did it yourself.  <BR> <BR>When we all &#40;us graphic designers&#41; migrated
    to the computer, took the work away from the typesetter, we didn&#39;t ever think
    about why we would need to pay for fonts. Thus the corundrum about teaching an
    old dog new tricks.  <BR> <BR>I buy lots of fonts now, because I respect the work
    that goes into creation of type. It doesn&#39;t bother me to drop some cash to
    get something great like HTF Gotham or FF Scala Sans. <BR> <BR>Plus, it keeps
    me from having to comp type by hand.
  created: '2003-08-04 20:21:12'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Typeright is doing something similar, but I don&#39;t know if  <BR>they target
    educators. <a href="http://www.typeright.org" target="_blank">http://www.typeright.org</a>
    <BR>____ <BR> <BR>Many schools teach about responsible design -- environ- <BR>mental,
    social, etc. Font piracy is a topic that could easily  <BR>be added to that discussion.
    <BR> <BR>I find it surprising that many in-house art departments  <BR>expect you
    to give them the fonts you&#39;ve specified in the  <BR>style guides you provide.
    &#34;Hey, you told us to use Thesis,  <BR>please send it over.&#34; My standard
    email response is &#34;For  <BR>legal reasons, we cannot send you this font software.&#34;  <BR>Somehow
    reminding them that it&#39;s software helps soften  <BR>the reply.
  created: '2003-08-05 00:11:54'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Joseph Pemberton said <BR> <BR>&#62;Typeright is doing something similar,  <BR>&#62;but
    I don&#39;t know if they target educators.  <BR>&#62;<a href="http://www.typeright.org"
    target="_blank">http://www.typeright.org</a> <BR> <BR> <BR>Yes, thanks. We&#39;re
    a member of it. I appreciate your suggestion, nontheless. &#40;<a href="http://www.typeright.org"
    target="_blank">www.typeright.org</a> does a wonderful job, by the way. A suggestion
    to readers here: check it out if you haven&#39;t previously.&#41; <BR> <BR>What
    I meant was an organization such as AIGA, that design instructors would already
    belong to. And get to them through a house publication such as an existing organization
    newsletter. <BR> <BR>Nick, perhaps you could ask at the University, whether there&#39;s
    a publication for design instructors, or whether all there is for something like
    this are just general instructor/teacher magazines. <BR> <BR> <BR>Mr Pemberton,
    I like your picture that you post here, by the way. It fascinates me every time
    I see it. <BR> <BR> <BR>Sean Glenn said <BR> <BR>&#62;When I was in school, we
    had access  <BR>&#62;to any typeface you could find  <BR>&#62;a complete copy
    of... in a book. <BR> <BR> <BR>Yes, I rather enjoyed those days. You can actually
    do a lot with a Pilot Razor Point pen, and sometimes, a Sharpie. <BR> <BR>As much
    as I love electronics, I pine for those days. Four or five hours with those thicker
    markers could really take its toll on one&#39;s nose, though. <BR> <BR>Thanks!
    <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-08-05 01:28:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: TypeRight is dead. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-08-05 01:37:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;Is/are there any well established organization/s that most such teachers
    are fairly guaranteed to belong to? <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t know. <BR> <BR>The problem
    being a part-time teacher &#40;at least for me&#41; is that you&#39;re not in
    the academic loop. Being paid by the hour, I try to minimize the time spent in
    delving into the workings of Academia. It&#39;s tough ehough to figure out the
    workings of the place I teach, let alone the big picture.  <BR> <BR>I do know
    that being an RGD &#40;Registered Graphic Designer of Ontario&#41; is becoming
    important for design teachers in Ontario, so perhaps there is a role that a professional
    organization can play.  <BR> <BR>The question is, how seriously do members follow
    their code of ethics? '
  created: '2003-08-05 18:18:49'
date: '2003-08-03 23:21:34'
title: Against the spirit of typography
...
