---
author:
  name: James Gareth
  picture: 110251
body: Hello all, <BR> <BR>In 1996, J. Walter Thompson unleased upon the world the
  extremely popular De Beers &#34;Shadows&#34; ad campaign. In their first advertisments,
  they used a very beautiful serif italic that caught my eye. Since then I&#39;ve
  been trying to figure out what it was. I searched high  and low. I posted in on
  usenet back then, but no one was able to help me. I even contacted J. Walter Thompson
  in London, who produced the ads for De Beers, but to no avail. Eventually, I let
  it go ...  <BR> <BR>[this is where the plot thickens, to abuse a cliche]  <BR> <BR>Until
  a few days ago I ran across Elsner and Flake&#39;s Caslon Rough and thought the
  italic bore a strange resemblance to my mystery diamond font. When I put them next
  to each other I was shocked! They&#39;re uncannily close save for the &#34;v.&#34;
  This would have been perfect and the search could have ended right there were it
  not for the &#34;roughness&#34; inherent in the face. This led me to think of it
  as a Caslon, which I had done before but with no satisfactory results.  <BR>Now
  I ask you for help in decoding the mystery ...  Any ideas greatly appreciated.  <BR>
  <BR><a href="http://www.sugarbuzz.net/diamond.jpg" target="_blank">http://www.sugarbuzz.net/diamond.jpg</a>
  <BR> <BR>The first sample was scanned from a De Beers print ad.  <BR> <BR>The second
  is a sample of Elsner Flake Caslon Rough.  <BR>
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I wouldn&#39;t be surprised if they used a Caslon italic and <BR>replaced
    the &#39;v&#39; with the italic from another serif feeling <BR>that the Caslon
    &#39;v&#39; is too &#39;u&#39;.  <BR> <BR>Amd it needn&#39;t be rough. Check out
    the Caslons at <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/Search?searchtext=caslon&amp;refby=typographica"
    target="_blank">MyFonts.com</a>.
  created: '2003-05-09 03:08:06'
- author:
    name: James Gareth
    picture: 110251
  body: 'Thanks Steven. I have checked out many &#40;all?&#41; of the Caslons over
    at Myfonts.com. The problem is that most Caslons don&#39;t have that kind of gentle
    swoop on top of ascenders on the italic. Caslon Rough did, which was surprising! '
  created: '2003-05-09 03:12:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: You may be looking at a modified <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/minion/semibold-italic/character/0076/CP4/?refby=typographia"
    target="_blank">Minion &#39;v&#39;</a>, for instance.
  created: '2003-05-09 03:13:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Ahh, now the gentle swoop I can&#39;t explain.
  created: '2003-05-09 03:15:25'
- author:
    name: James Gareth
    picture: 110251
  body: 'Thanks Tiffany. The problem though is not simply modifying Caslon Rough--though
    your observation of the &#39;y&#39; is a good one and one I hadn&#39;t thought
    of--but to find the &#34;smooth&#34; &#40;non processed&#41; variant of the Italic.
    Elsner and Flake do not have a &#34;regular&#34; version of this Caslon to my
    knowlege. Their version of the rough was created in the 1980s from source materials
    that were non-digital, and likely of ATF origin &#40;thanks to Ms. Elsner for
    this info&#41;. I am hoping someone here may know where to find the digital version
    of this source typeface--the one that was used, and perhaps modified, for the
    De Beers Ads. '
  created: '2003-05-09 06:42:17'
date: '2003-05-09 03:00:49'
title: The Mystery begins ... De Beers Diamond font
...
