---
author:
  name: designalchemy
body: I recall Hrant taking about the big typeface <BR>lawsuit a while back that involved
  just about all major type foundries vs. fred nader &#40;aka Apostrophe&#41;. Here
  are the court findings... <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://decisions.fct-cf.gc.ca/fct/2001/2001fct1170.html"
  TARGET="_top">http://decisions.fct-cf.gc.ca/fct/2001/2001fct1170.html</A>
comments:
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: I thought it was interesting that his site, apostrophiclabs.com was up until
    a few days ago, when it mysteriously disappeared without a trace.... <BR> <BR>Could
    it possibly be because of this response of his? <BR><A HREF="http://www.hardcovermedia.com/lab/Pages/Misc/PRTHIS.htm"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.hardcovermedia.com/lab/Pages/Misc/PRTHIS.htm</A>
  created: '2002-04-04 08:48:09'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: The site&#39;s still there, you just got the URL wrong. <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.apostrophiclab.com/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.apostrophiclab.com/</A> <BR> <BR>Though I don&#39;t think
    he&#39;ll be having much to say.
  created: '2002-04-04 12:24:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Actually, &#34;Someguy&#34;&#39;s link is exactly what Apostrophe had to
    say. <BR> <BR>BTW, that $1000 &#40;#2 in &#34;Reasons for Order and Order&#34;&#41;
    is Canadian, which is currently around US$630. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-04 16:51:51'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Someguy: <BR> <BR>&#62;I thought it was interesting that his site, <BR>&#62;apostrophiclabs.com
    was up until a few days ago, <BR>&#62;when it mysteriously disappeared without
    a <BR>&#62;trace....  <BR> <BR>Anonagain: <BR>&#62;The site&#39;s still there,
    you just got the  <BR>&#62;URL wrong.  <BR>&#62;<A HREF="http://www.apostrophiclab.com/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.apostrophiclab.com/</A>  <BR> <BR>Haphazian: <BR>&#62;Actually,
    &#34;Someguy&#34;&#39;s link is exactly what  <BR>&#62;Apostrophe had to say.
    <BR> <BR>Spot the moron? <BR> <BR>Haphazianagain: <BR>&#62;BTW, that $1000 &#40;#2
    in &#34;Reasons for  <BR>&#62;Order and Order&#34;&#41; is Canadian, <BR>&#62;which
    is currently around US$630. <BR> <BR>Spot the moron again?'
  created: '2002-04-04 22:13:22'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' POST ANONAGAINS IP ADDRESS SO WE CAN SEE ITS ORIGIN, PLEEZ. '
  created: '2002-04-04 22:56:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I don&#39;t think he&#39;ll be having much to say. <BR> <BR>From what
    I understand, he&#39;ll soon be saying even more than what he&#39;s said already...
    <BR> <BR>Maybe the actual morons are the sue-happy misers who might just lose
    a few hundred thousand dollars as a result of a juicy counter-lawsuit? Aaah, if
    one could only pay the bills with regret as the currency! <BR> <BR>In any case,
    the reason you are obviously so angry is because you lost the battle - and in
    a major way. But you can really only be angry at yourselves. Don&#39;t hate little
    ol&#39; me, I&#39;m just the messenger - alerting you to your misguided value
    system. <BR> <BR>Respect is what you really want - but you can&#39;t get it through
    intimidation. Leveraging the legal system is no substiture for decent behavior.
    First, you have to make good enough fonts; then, you have to treat &#42;others&#42;
    with respect; lastly, you have to educate people as to why they should respect
    you. And even after all this, you still won&#39;t have everybody on your side
    - but that&#39;s life. <BR> <BR>Learning to handle your loss, and subsequently
    admitting your fault&#40;s&#41; are the first steps to a happy &#40;or at least
    less miserable&#41; life. <BR> <BR>Peace. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-04 22:58:46'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' FOOL, why do you want to know my IP address, what do you think it will tell
    you!? Great, I&#39;ve a dialup/cable/dsl account with an ISP - tens of thousands
    of others use the same ISP, so what? You could take a guess at who I was, but
    it&#39;d only be a guess - you can&#39;t even verify a physical location with
    an IP, all of AT&amp;T&#39;s customer&#39;s resolve to New Jersey, because that&#39;s
    where their net block is registered. <BR> <BR>Should we have them post your IP
    too, are you any braver than me? <BR> <BR>If the admins of this board want to
    verify users then they shouldn&#39;t allow anonymous posts. If they want a membership
    scheme where everyone is absolutely known, then they should set one up. Don&#39;t
    moan about anonymity when you&#39;ve already voted for it. <BR> <BR>As to the
    moron. It&#39;s fairly straight forward. Someguy stated that a site was down.
    He was wrong, because, as you can see he wrote &#42;labs.com, when the site URL
    is &#42;lab.com, no &#34;s&#34;. <BR> <BR>Some other guy decided that I&#39;d
    mispoke, because he couldn&#39;t be bothered to read the posts properly, and what
    was cited. I think that calling such a moron isn&#39;t to far from the truth.
    <BR> <BR>Same guy thought he&#39;d discerned the facts in a lengthy legal matter,
    took three years to be resolved, from a single court document - do you think there
    may be more documents, that discuss other aspects of this case, that are not published
    on the web? Seems likely to me. <BR> <BR>You may also note that the legal document
    concerned is something like six months old, the case has only just been resolved
    - did something happen in the mean time, did something happen before this? <BR>
    <BR>If you read the legal document properly, you&#39;ll see that the defendant
    is basically being accused of lying in his defence. The judge has odered that
    the defendant be subjected to a discovery process, sat in a room and asked question
    after question, all documented - the judge must therefore agree that there is
    something to the plaintiff&#39;s accusation of falsehood, though he doesn&#39;t
    strike out the defendant&#39;s statement at that time. <BR> <BR>If you got this
    far, you&#39;ll see that the defendant was also ordered to pay the costs of this
    hearing before the court - again suggesting the judge had seen/heard evidence
    as to the falsehoods claimed, and accepted those claims. <BR> <BR>I think that,
    if someone wants to start posting figures about this or that, then they should
    at least understand the process, and the figures they are quoting. Someone who
    didn&#39;t do that, just going for the headlines, would, in my opinion, rightly
    be called a moron. <BR> <BR>You may also want to consider that the same person
    was ranting on a few days ago at Creative Pro, about how the defendant &#34;never
    had to pay a single red cent&#34; &#40;see comments in response to John D Berry&#39;s
    latest dt font article&#41;. In a few days less than a &#34;red cent&#34; has
    been inflated to $1000, is he going to find some more &#34;facts&#34; &#40;ie
    the real thing, not stuff he wants to opine about&#41;, will the costs to the
    defendant get inflated to $10,000, $100,000, a million!? <BR> <BR>If we don&#39;t
    find the facts, will we &#42;know&#42; that it was only ever $1,000 - like he
    &#42;knew&#42; a few days ago that it was &#34;nothing&#34;. <BR> <BR>This same
    person has claimed costs to a single plaintiff were hundreds of thousands of dollars
    &#40;posted here, and then deleted - I can&#39;t have been the only person that
    saw it&#41;. How does he know, does he work for any of the foundries concerned,
    does he cite some evidence. No he does not. <BR> <BR>If that same person then
    went off tangentially, with no knowledge of the facts, and no evidence to support
    his statements to essentially berate those who had no choice other than to defend
    their rights &#40;their rights protected by long-standing legislation&#41;, then
    I think again he would rightly be described as a moron. <BR> <BR>But, why take
    me seriously, I have no standing as an anonymous poster. But do you really know
    who anyone is in this forum, are they all validated just because they gave a name,
    do they have any greater standing, are they really who they say they are? <BR>
    <BR>There was a guy used to post to a mailing list with the mail address &#34;nevillebrody@&#91;an
    isp&#93;.fr&#34;, what do you reckon are the chances? <BR> <BR>And now I got really
    upset, let&#39;s put this into perspective. This &#42;moron&#42;, this troll,
    this seeker of truth and justice, this fukcing idiot that will post anything he
    likes with no backup whatsoever just so he can point fingers and use innuendo
    to convict - is no better than Apostrophe anyway. This moron pirated a font, was
    discovered, and had to have debt collectors sent out after him to get him to pay
    the license fee. <BR> <BR>The font he pirated, just happens to be put out by one
    of the foundries in this case, whom he is trying so hard to bait and embarrass.
    <BR> <BR>Papazian, you are a worm, go back and crawl under your rock where you
    belong. <BR> <BR>Who has standing here, Papazian because he puts his name? And
    what is that worth? '
  created: '2002-04-05 14:59:04'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Wow, Tim, that was harsh! '
  created: '2002-04-05 18:28:03'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' My guess: Papazian, &#34;someguy&#34; and &#34;anotherperson&#34; are all
    the same person. <BR> <BR>&#34;anotherperson&#34; seems here to be, yet again,
    trying to shift the blame on to someone else, someone else to target. <BR> <BR>Look
    at the time stamps yourself, which appear to be Pacific time, see the proximity
    of two of those posts? <BR> <BR>See the time on the &#34;anonagainagainagain&#34;
    post - seems unlikely to have been posted by someone on the West Coast, which
    is &#34;anotherperson&#39;s&#34; inference. <BR> <BR>Anotherperson&#39;s post,
    just starting work in CA? You guess. '
  created: '2002-04-05 18:51:56'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' I know that the designer of this typeface had to face  <BR>     Papazian
    bragging about this act of piracy. It wasn&#39;t  <BR>     an accidental discovery,
    Papazian basically dared the  <BR>     designer to do something about it. '
  created: '2002-04-05 18:56:38'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Did you ever make <BR>&#62;Peace.  <BR>&#62;hhp  <BR>??????? <BR> <BR>Did
    you ever <BR>&#62;subsequently admitting your fault&#40;s&#41; <BR>??????? <BR>
    <BR>Are your rantings simply a pathetic attempt to justify what you did? '
  created: '2002-04-05 19:23:27'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'Since you&#39;re all guessing: <BR> <BR>The time stamps on these boards reflect
    the time  <BR>on the server &#40;Pacific time&#41; not the time on the  <BR>user&#39;s
    computer. <BR> <BR>Papazian, &#39;someguy&#39;, &#39;anotherperson&#39;,  <BR>&#39;disgusted&#39;
    and &#39;TheWorldWantsToKnow&#39; <BR>are all coming from unique IPs. I&#39;ll  <BR>leave
    it at that. <BR> <BR>And yes, further still, all the anon&#40;andyetagains&#41;
    <BR>are from the same IP. &#40;Welcome back.&#41; <BR> <BR>And I promise this
    is really me. Really.'
  created: '2002-04-05 19:23:39'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Joe, dialups most often give unique IPs on each connection, that doesn&#39;t
    mean it&#39;s a different person. If you have a trace route app you can see all
    the switches the connection goes through from you to the selected IP, if the last
    ones all belong to the same ISP... good chance it&#39;s the same person. <BR>
    <BR>But at the same time, same IP doesn&#39;t make it the same person - even if
    it&#39;s simultaneous. '
  created: '2002-04-05 19:36:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; from a single court document <BR>&#62; just going for the headlines
    <BR> <BR>Wrong. <BR> <BR>&#62; will the costs to the defendant get inflated <BR>
    <BR>The defendant might actually end up &#42;making&#42; a few hundred thousand
    dollars... <BR> <BR>&#62; why take me seriously <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not at all a
    matter of taking you seriously or not, it&#39;s a matter of taking you for a coward
    who has something to hide - something that reflects very poorly on you, and hence
    your stance and opinions. <BR> <BR>If your name has been tainted by previous misdeeds,
    then there&#39;s only one thing you can do to exist in harmony within the type
    community in general and this forum in particular: apologize. <BR> <BR>I hope
    you have it in you. <BR> <BR>&#62; with no backup whatsoever <BR> <BR>Wrong again.
    I might just have more backup than you! <BR> <BR>&#62; is no better than Apostrophe
    anyway <BR> <BR>Riiight - what an accurate comparison... <BR>And that&#39;s why
    -on the TypeDesign discussion list- Apostrophe was confronted most strongly by
    &#42;me&#42;, and subsequently got kicked off the list simply for being Apostrophe
    &#40;without actually harming the discussion list itself - usually the only reason
    to get kicked off&#41;. Your &#34;friend&#34;, on the other hand, was kicked off
    THREE TIMES for his incessant, misguided flaming. Among very many other things,
    he equated me with a rapist. Twice he was allowed to rejoin based mostly on his
    reputation, but after the third time he was not allowed back. This whole ordeal
    took almost a year and a half, and the list is still squirming from the wounds.
    I hope we don&#39;t have to repeat this here - the outcome will be the same. And
    you&#39;re not getting any younger. <BR> <BR>Making good fonts &#40;even if they&#39;re
    just display fonts&#41; is no excuse for indecent public behavior. <BR> <BR>The
    list archives say it all - just go read the entire sordid story. I have nothing
    to hide - unlike you &#40;plural&#41;. <BR> <BR>The Nasty Queen and her fellow
    ogres are sitting in feces. And instead of getting up and washing themselves off,
    they&#39;re actually developing an apetite for eating feces. CHANGE. Now. <BR>
    <BR>You&#39;re angry because you lost the battle&#40;s&#41;, and you&#39;re losing
    the war. And not because you were the underdog - but because you committed a greater
    fault than the people you were hunting, in your rabid berserker rage. First, you
    must regret your actions - just like Apostrophe did, btw. After that, you will
    probably see the road to harmony clearly on you own. <BR> <BR>&#62; he is trying
    so hard to bait and embarrass. <BR> <BR>Not at all. At the very beginning, yes,
    but I got over that a while ago. Now I&#39;m back to my original &#34;core issue&#34;:
    to get people to behave decently. Why? Because it&#39;s good for the type community.
    What you did was not decent - in fact it&#39;s almost as bad as what Apostrophe
    did. <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t assume I&#39;m like you - I have reasons distinctly my
    own, and a lot less dishonorable than yours. I am greater than you. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Who has standing here, Papazian because he puts his name? And what is that worth?  <BR>
    <BR>You want a dollar amount, you materialistic cretin? <BR> <BR>Standing?! You&#39;re
    not using your name because you don&#39;t have any yourself! I am what I am, and
    refuse to hide it. And I&#39;m not worried, because -as much as there&#39;s so
    much room for improvement- I&#39;m still a better person than you and your miserly
    cohorts. <BR> <BR>&#62; that was harsh! <BR> <BR>Riiight. <BR>I grew up in a civil
    war, with car bombs, snipers, no running water, the works. At 17 I was guarding
    my high school with a &#34;klashin&#34; &#40;AK-47&#41;. This little conflict
    -which is destroying your lives- is essentially just entertainment for me. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; bragging about this act of piracy <BR>&#62; dared the designer to do
    something about it <BR> <BR>More distortions. Don&#39;t believe the hype, as they
    say. Read the archives, and decide for yourselves what &#42;really&#42; happened.
    I have nothing to hide, especially not my name! The only thing I&#39;d like to
    avoid &#40;but probably less than you&#41; is wasting time repeating history.
    <BR> <BR>The bottom line -in this context- is this: <BR>You cannot harm me. Against
    my clear written warning, you decided to make an enemy out of me. But this is
    &#42;not&#42; payback - it&#39;s just lack of self-censorship. If you had not
    made an enemy out of me, you would simply be assured favoritism from me, in the
    form of keeping my mouth shut to help a friend in need. I have a weakness in being
    too honest, and here I see no reason to shut up. It&#39;s that simple! And I told
    you this would happen. <BR> <BR>Also note this: as a favor to one of you who &#42;did&#42;
    ask me nicely to keep my mouth shut, I did not reply to Ole&#39;s original post.
    But when I saw yet another attempt at spin-doctoring from your gang &#40;and I
    do mean gang&#41; in the form of &#34;Though I don&#39;t think he&#39;ll be having
    much to say&#34; I got provoked into correcting that attempt at distortion. The
    truth is that Apostrophe won &#40;and might win even more soon&#41;, and you&#39;re
    trying to hide it. The fact that he &#42;shouldn&#39;t&#42; have won &#40;as far
    as I&#39;m concerned&#41; does not relieve you of the responsability to be honest.
    You will understand that as an Armenian I have a particular aversion to historical
    revisionism. <BR> <BR>The only thing you can -and are- doing is harming Typophile.
    Do not drag Typophile into this - it can only bring more grief, especially to
    you! <BR> <BR>So maybe you should be kicked off from here as well. Unless you
    can admit defeat and regain your senses. Pronto. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>Now that
    you&#39;ve read the above in anger, please do everybody a favor and re-read it
    calmly with just a little bit of objective self-doubt: if my remaining iota of
    faith in you is justified, you will realize this: you need to change. And don&#39;t
    worry about me. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-05 20:45:30'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: anonagain, <BR> <BR>The fact is Hrant&#39;s IP is nearly ALWAYS the same  <BR>and
    there are as many unique IPs here as  <BR>there are posters. My intent is not
    to say we  <BR>definitively know the identity of our anonymous  <BR>guests...
    <BR> <BR>But that&#39;s not really the point. I&#39;m simply  <BR>illustrating
    that this thread isn&#39;t just you and  <BR>Hrant. Anonymous posting is a double-edged   <BR>sword
    and I&#39;m  just trying to keep things above the  <BR>table--while still protecting
    that anonymity. <BR> <BR>I think the value of anonymous posting is yet  <BR>again
    proven here with your salient points.  <BR>Namely that nobody should jump to  <BR>conclusions
    based on partial facts or make  <BR>blanket indictments of entire industries.
  created: '2002-04-05 20:59:43'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: Nasty queen? Feces? Is this not proof enough that things are getting just
    a _little_ out of hand? <BR> <BR>Why does every thread on this board have to end
    in a _&#40;insert_name_here&#41;_ vs. Hrant flame? <BR> <BR>Is there a remedy?
    We certainly have a few options that we&#39;ve been considering. I&#39;d love
    everyone&#39;s input.
  created: '2002-04-05 21:01:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; nobody should jump to conclusions based on partial facts <BR> <BR>1.
    There is no jumping - it&#39;s just walking, and imperfect lighting will not deter
    me. If I sound cagey sometimes, it&#39;s because I&#39;ve made certain promises.
    <BR> <BR>2. You&#39;re not seeing the spin-doctoring that&#39;s the entire point
    of everything they&#39;ve posted since what &#34;Someguy&#34; wrote. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Nasty queen? Feces? <BR> <BR>The truth hurts - it surprised me too, when I started
    realizing it. You have no idea of the disgusting things going on in the background.
    Everything I myself have done on the other hand is in plain view for all to see
    and judge. <BR> <BR>I have some -but not a complete- idea of their actions because
    I was one of the victims, and as a result now have a &#34;channel&#34; of sorts.
    But really, now I&#39;m only the messenger. <BR> <BR>They tried to make an example
    out of me, and not only did it fail, but now they&#39;ve lost my favor, so I don&#39;t
    feel the urge to go out of my way to be nice to them, that&#39;s all. Until/unless
    they apologize. If they would just treat me with some respect, they would find
    me on their side again - instead of being the too-honest neutral party. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    not singling them out. This is how I treat non-friends who commit wrongs. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; things are getting just a _little_ out of hand?  <BR> <BR>These are
    just the ripples from horrible decisions made a while back. <BR> <BR>&#62; Why
    does every thread on this board have to end in a _&#40;insert_name_here&#41;_
    vs. Hrant flame?  <BR> <BR>Simple: I&#39;m one of the few people both willing
    and able to uncover distortions. Both in stagnant typographic practices, as well
    as misguided social values. Those who would benefit from the status quo and/or
    those who have something to gain by hiding the truth can&#39;t stand me, of course.
    But they have to realize that I&#39;m just the catalyst - not the actual problem.
    <BR> <BR>They want to force me out of the type community - but is that community
    served by such cyberterrorism? Anyway, as soon as they realize that I&#39;m here
    to stay, maybe they can regain some of their dignity. <BR> <BR>&#62; Is there
    a remedy? <BR> <BR>You can never completely erase confict - and you shouldn&#39;t
    anyway. Now, I do agree that anonymity &#42;can&#42; have value, but in practice
    it&#39;s mostly serving to further petty agendas. <BR> <BR>Solution? A possible
    compromise: <BR>Allow a &#42;single&#42; &#42;unique&#42; username per &#42;valid&#42;
    email address, and make the email address public. This would preserves anonymity,
    but to some extent hold the poster accountable, in terms of third-party reactions
    to his posts. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-05 21:29:26'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Papazian, you continue to amaze me with the crap you come out with. <BR>
    <BR>Don&#39;t keep referring to &#34;you&#34; as if I had anything to do with
    this court case or have had any discussion with you previously about this matter.
    <BR> <BR>I have no financial interest in this case at all. I did not take part
    in the law suit, I did not give any evidence I do not work for any of the foundries.
    I am just a bystander who can see a little more to this than you permit yourself.
    <BR> <BR>And my name is not Tim. <BR> <BR>All you want to do is shout and pretend
    you know something - you know &#42;nothing&#42;. If that&#39;s not the case cite
    your evidence. <BR> <BR>You, Papazian, talk of Apostrophe as if he is some friend
    of yours, you know what his plans are, you forsee him issuing a counter suit!?
    For what purpose? For getting named on a web site? <BR> <BR>You&#39;ve spent the
    last week or so baying for Apostrophe&#39;s real name, now you have it and you&#39;ve
    some sympathy for his cause!? <BR> <BR>You want to accuse others of abusing the
    law, what would Apostrophe be doing then? <BR> <BR>What would you want these people
    to do. Their rights were violated, blatently, by this criminal. Their only option
    was to seek legal redress. <BR> <BR>Perhaps you&#39;re suggesting, with your civil
    war swagger and Kalashnikov that you know a better way. Perhaps they could slip
    you $10 and you could sort it out for them? <BR> <BR>You are just so screwed up
    because they answered your call, they went after you when you pirated one of their
    fonts. Now you&#39;re as fcuked as Apostrophe. <BR> <BR>A dollar value on my name.
    No, no value on my name. No reputation to give weight or not to my statements
    - just my statements. <BR> <BR>Apostrophe is a proven liar, thief and fantasist.
    His words carry no weight. <BR> <BR>You are a proven, captured and made to pay
    font thief. You are all swagger and no balls. You are an idot that always must
    have the last word, no matter how much you need to wriggle out of your original
    proposition. <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t keep relying on your &#34;heroic&#34; past, no
    one cares, we see it every night on the TV. <BR> <BR>If you have the facts, post
    them. Don&#39;t keep alluding to things you know, you know nothing. All you&#39;re
    doing is trying to shake the tree to see what falls out. <BR> <BR>A rotten apple:
    Hrant Papazian. <BR> <BR>You want to accuse others of disrupting forums like this
    and mailing lists? Get this jerk off, I know of more people that have left mailing
    lists, and don&#39;t visit forums like this because of your rantings, than you
    can imagine. <BR> <BR>And where do they go? Places you&#39;ll &#42;never&#42;
    be invited to. <BR> <BR>You&#39;re the disrupter, you&#39;re the one who has no
    respect or standing. '
  created: '2002-04-05 21:33:41'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Will this moron ever give it up!? I really doubt it. <BR> <BR>There are
    only partial facts in this case, anyone can see that. At the same time you&#39;ve
    got people putting spin on it from every angle. The fact is that the whole truth
    will probably never be known. <BR> <BR>Does Apostrophe know the truth - in that
    screwed up brain of his I really doubt it. What ever he writes or says, or provides
    through &#34;conduits&#34;, is the result of the mind of a fantasist, a dreamer.
    <BR> <BR>Does Papazian know the truth, or anything like the truth? Come on! <BR>
    <BR>Here he is playing the victim, saying how &#34;they&#34; are trying to drive
    him out of the typographic community. Surely &#34;they&#34; are the only other
    people, apart from Apostrophe, who have the inside story. <BR> <BR>Apostrophe&#39;s
    a nut, &#34;they&#34; all hate Papazian &#40;his terms&#41;. <BR> <BR>Conclusion:
    Papazian knows nothing. <BR> <BR>&#62;Those who would benefit from the status
    quo  <BR>&#62;and/or those who have something to gain by hiding <BR>&#62;the truth
    can&#39;t stand me, of course. But they  <BR>&#62;have to realize that I&#39;m
    just the catalyst -  <BR>&#62;not the actual problem. <BR> <BR>Here again, &#34;I&#39;m
    just the catalyst&#34; &#40;shaking the tree&#41;. These are the words of another
    fantasist. <BR> <BR>What &#34;truth&#34; is there to hide? How come The Almighty
    chose Papazian as the guardian of the truth? <BR> <BR>This is just the ranting
    of another conspiracy theorist - he should be writing for the X-files, he&#39;s
    wasted on us. <BR> <BR>&#62;They want to force me out of the type  <BR>&#62;community
    <BR> <BR>Another conspiracy? <BR> <BR>No one&#39;s forcing you out dreamer. You
    took it on yourself, one by one, in your own private war of attrition, you just
    wore out your welcome. <BR> <BR>Thing is, this isn&#39;t irreversible, you could
    rebuild those bridges. But you never will, because that ingnorant stubborness
    in you is what burned those bridges in the first place, and that&#39;s the same
    mechanism by which you&#39;ll never let yourself go back. <BR> <BR>&#62;- but
    is that community served by such  <BR>&#62;cyberterrorism? <BR> <BR>Does anyone
    have a clue what that means!? <BR> <BR>The grand typo council is plotting the
    downfall of the internet, and Hrant Papazian is their first victim!? <BR> <BR>&#62;Anyway,
    as soon as they realize that I&#39;m here to <BR>&#62;stay, maybe they can regain
    some of their dignity. <BR> <BR>You&#39;re so far gone you don&#39;t even know
    what planet you&#39;re on. '
  created: '2002-04-05 21:57:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I am just a bystander <BR> <BR>And how in hell are we supposed to
    know that.. or believe it?... <BR> <BR>&#62; cite your evidence. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    sorry - my hands are tied. You don&#39;t have to believe me - but I hope there&#39;s
    more to your life than &#34;evidence&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#62; You, Papazian, talk
    of Apostrophe as if he is some friend of yours <BR> <BR>Nope. <BR> <BR>&#62; you&#39;ve
    some sympathy for his cause!? <BR> <BR>You&#39;re seeing this as black-and-white,
    just like so many others are, just like your entire society forces you to be.
    I think Apostrophe did something very wrong. I think his hunters did something
    almost as bad. Get it? <BR> <BR>&#62; You want to accuse others of abusing the
    law, what would Apostrophe be doing then?  <BR> <BR>Where did you get that idea?!
    My whole point is that the law doesn&#39;t even work! Do you get that part? Again:
    I DO NOT THINK LIKE YOU. <BR> <BR>&#62; Their only option was to seek legal redress.
    <BR> <BR>Nope. <BR> <BR>&#62; Perhaps you&#39;re suggesting, with your civil war
    swagger and Kalashnikov that you know a better way. <BR> <BR>Actually, the fact
    that I lived through that taught me that that doesn&#39;t work! And my point is
    that your cherished social systems are simply a bloodless version of that savagery.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; You are just so screwed up because they answered your call <BR>
    <BR>Everybody&#39;s a little screwed up - but my screwiness has nothing to do
    with the font world. On the other hand, the screwiness of both sides of this confrontation
    has everything to do with self-righteous fundamentalism. Trust me, I know it when
    I see it. <BR> <BR>&#62; Apostrophe is a proven liar, thief and fantasist. His
    words carry no weight. <BR> <BR>His words carry less weight than that of his opponents.
    However, the words of his opponents carry less weight than they did before the
    confrontation - and that&#39;s only &#42;their&#42; fault. Get it? <BR> <BR>&#62;
    You are a proven, captured and made to pay font thief. <BR> <BR>More distortions.
    Read the archives. <BR> <BR>&#62; All you&#39;re doing is trying to shake the
    tree to see what falls out.  <BR> <BR>Nope. The tree has fallen, and I&#39;m simply
    pointing that out. <BR> <BR>&#62; don&#39;t visit forums like this because of
    your rantings <BR> <BR>They&#39;re free to ignore me! If they don&#39;t have the
    willpower to co-exist with somebody they don&#39;t like/agree_with, whose weakness
    is that? <BR> <BR>&#62; Places you&#39;ll &#42;never&#42; be invited to. <BR>
    <BR>Why do you assume I want to be invited to places frequented by over-the-hill
    deluded misers? <BR> <BR>&#62; you&#39;re the one who has no respect or standing.
    <BR> <BR>I can assure you that over time I&#39;ve made a quantity and quality
    of friends to more than match this rag-tag collection of opponents. You&#39;re
    just not in the right circles. <BR> <BR>Look at it this way: <BR>I&#39;m on an
    accelerated program: I&#39;ve made more friends and enemies in four years than
    most people do in a lifetime. Why even make any enemies? One reason is that -when
    like me you don&#39;t care about being a politian- the strength of your friends
    is proportional to the strength of your enemies. Or maybe it&#39;s just the way
    I am. In any case, I &#42;do&#42; try to compromise - but it &#42;is&#42; a two-way
    street. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>&#62; you just wore out your welcome.  <BR> <BR>Among
    certain people, I was never welcome. <BR>Among others, I&#39;m more welcome than
    ever. <BR> <BR>The type community isn&#39;t one big block - I&#39;m disliked in
    some parts, liked in others. Normal. <BR> <BR>&#62; this isn&#39;t irreversible
    <BR> <BR>Nothing is. <BR> <BR>But the bridges you speak of, I&#39;m not burning
    them. I simply refuse to cross some of them, occasionally speaking out as to why:
    those bridges lead to disreputable people. <BR> <BR>You see, I enjoy a certain
    luxury: because I don&#39;t expect to make a living in type design, I can be honest,
    instead of suffering the internal nail-biting of a canniving diplomat. The good
    news is that along with the people I alienate &#40;who aren&#39;t people I would
    enjoy associating with anyway!&#41;, I have endeared myself to some others. This
    is not my imagination. <BR> <BR>All of us have some controversial positions -
    I&#39;m just lucky in this context &#40;but not the in the context of my day job,
    mind you&#41; to be able to voice many of them! Are you envious? <BR> <BR>&#62;
    You&#39;re so far gone you don&#39;t even know what planet you&#39;re on.  <BR>
    <BR>You&#39;re too naive. <BR> <BR>And no, I will never stop being Hrant. When
    they asked me in kindergarten &#34;what will you be when you grow up&#34;, I responded:
    &#34;I am the Hrant.&#34; Egomaniac? Probably. Candid? I try to be - unlike too
    many people around here. <BR> <BR>What will &#42;you&#42; do, is what you should
    ask yourself. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-05 22:20:22'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' If you know the truth, and the answers to all these questions you rhetorically
    pose, then you should write it, here. <BR> <BR>Otherwise your voice carries no
    weight. <BR> <BR>What will I do? I&#39;ll counter the biased crap that trolls
    like you write. '
  created: '2002-04-05 22:32:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; If you know the truth <BR> <BR>No I don&#39;t - and like you &#40;or
    was it you?&#41; so astutely wrote, nobody does know - and I would add that nobody
    &#42;can&#42; know. This is not about knowing the truth and teaching it to people.
    <BR> <BR>&#34; <BR>1. Nothing exists. <BR>2. If anything exists, it cannot be
    understood. <BR>3. If anything can be understood, it cannot be communicated. <BR>&#34;
    <BR>-Gorgias <BR> <BR>&#62; Otherwise your voice carries no weight. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s
    not that simple. <BR> <BR>&#62; I&#39;ll counter the biased crap that trolls like
    you write <BR> <BR>Please do - otherwise there is no progress. <BR> <BR>&#34;War
    {meaning conflict} is the father of all things.&#34; <BR>-Heraclitus <BR> <BR>And
    I will do the same as you - in fact that&#39;s how I started here. <BR> <BR>BTW:
    Everybody&#39;s biased. Humans by definition are. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>Now I&#39;m
    sorry if it seems that I want to always have the last word - that is both a perceived
    as well as a very real problem for me, I know. But when somebody says something
    which &#42;deserves&#42; an answer, is it fair to ignore it? <BR> <BR>---- <BR>
    <BR>Maybe this online medium is a hybrid world that we&#39;re still not used to.
    It&#39;s somewhat like real-time conversation &#40;as opposed to &#34;normal&#34;
    written conversation&#41;, with one huge defficiency: you cannot make a subtle
    facial gesture to gracefully and appropriately end an exchange. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-05 22:43:21'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;&#62; If you know the truth  <BR> <BR>&#62; No I don&#39;t <BR> <BR>Then
    cut out the baseless, completely biased speculation. '
  created: '2002-04-05 23:01:32'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;&#62; You are a proven, captured and made to pay font thief.  <BR>&#62;
    <BR>&#62;More distortions. Read the archives. <BR> <BR>Give the url please or
    if that is not possible put the messages up on your site where all can see. But
    can you do it without resorting to the artful use of the ellipsis to hide the
    parts which would prove you wrong? Can you really say that you were not guilty
    of font theft and still have faith that there are documents to vindicate you?
    Will the archives earn you the respect you want? '
  created: '2002-04-05 23:49:53'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: ' Aaah, There&#39;s nothing like a little drama and excitement in the world
    of type.   <BR> <BR>So if an individual was caught using a font without a license
    and was made to pay, can they &#42;ever&#42; regain full citizenship in the type
    community? <BR> <BR>What would that individual have to do to regain trust? '
  created: '2002-04-05 23:53:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ' Start buying the type? &#40;or&#41; Buy the type? '
  created: '2002-04-05 23:56:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '<A HREF="http://www.typedesign.org/" TARGET="_top">http://www.typedesign.org/</A>
    <BR>BTW, I encourage everybody here &#40;except the two people who were previously
    kicked off...&#41; to join that list, now that the storm is definitely gone...
    There&#39;s  currently an interesting discussion about numerals, and usually there&#39;s
    a lot more than that. <BR> <BR>BTW, I cannot put the messages up because there
    are &#42;hundreds&#42; of them, with a very complex dynamic, and they span more
    than a year!! When I tell you that this forum will suffer greatly if the same
    witch-hunt is allowed to take place here, I&#39;m not joking. <BR> <BR>&#62; Can
    you really say that you were not guilty of font theft <BR> <BR>No. But I can say
    that I made reparations for my transgression &#40;which was reported to them by
    none other than &#42;me&#42;, you should know&#41; - but it was not enough in
    the eyes of the gestapo. And the people who tried -and failed- to make an over-blown
    example out of me were guilty of &#42;much worse&#42; than one font theft. <BR>
    <BR>Their stance was and has been ludicrous, and now they&#39;re suffering the
    consequences. <BR> <BR>&#62; Will the archives earn you the respect you want?  <BR>
    <BR>Not from everybody, but I only want respect from certain types of people -
    again: I&#39;m not a politician. <BR> <BR>For these people, reading -and absorbing-
    the archives might surprise them, but will only endear them to me more. Not least
    because they will see me admitting to, and fighting my own faults. Even when faced
    against their tyrannical, puritanical fundamentalism. <BR> <BR>Bottom line: <BR>1.
    You cannot get more out of me than you already have - which was less than what
    you would have gotten if you had done #2. <BR>2. It&#39;s better to have me as
    a friend than a critical non-friend. I don&#39;t say &#34;enemy&#34; because the
    pity in me overpowers the hatered. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>&#62; can they &#42;ever&#42;
    regain full citizenship in the type community? <BR> <BR>The community isn&#39;t
    some country - it&#39;s essentially made up of individuals. So to answer your
    question in that light: <BR> <BR>Among some people, easily. Among other people,
    with greater difficulty. Among the type of people I&#39;m complaining about, only
    if: <BR>1. I can&#39;t be more useful as an &#34;example&#34;. But that didn&#39;t
    work... <BR>2. I grovel and beg for mercy. But why would I, when they can&#39;t
    really harm me? <BR> <BR>I lost a little bit - they lost a ton. Face it. Move
    on. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>&#62; Buy the type? <BR> <BR>No, no. <BR>For these
    fascists, that&#39;s not even close to good enough. But now they&#39;re starting
    to learn their lesson... <BR> <BR>Human behavior has to be mutually reasonable.
    They weren&#39;t. Don&#39;t let them use Typophile for their deluded goals. <BR>
    <BR>Anyway, this isn&#39;t about me, it&#39;s about how you fight &#42;real&#42;
    piracy, on the scale of Apostrophe. Conclusion: not the way they did it!! <BR>
    <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-04-06 00:31:23'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' I&#39;ve lost you. Who are &#34;the fascists,&#34; Hrant? '
  created: '2002-04-06 06:06:47'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: As the only person to post in this thread who was actually a party to this
    lawsuit, let me set a couple of things straight. <BR> <BR>First, the document
    Ole S&oslash;renson listed does not represent &#34;court findings&#34; in this
    matter. You&#39;ll see from its date that this order significantly predates the
    settlement of Emigre et al v. Apostrophe, which was closed in March 2002. <BR>
    <BR>Second, neither side &#34;won&#34; or &#34;lost&#34; in this matter. The parties
    settled the lawsuit; settlements are, by definition, agreeable to both parties.
    You should not find the words &#34;won&#34; or &#34;lost&#34; in any press release
    issued by the foundries. <BR> <BR>Third, no party to this lawsuit is at liberty
    to disclose the financial terms of the settlement. Anyone implying otherwise is,
    to use the legal term, talking out of their &#149;&#149;&#149;. <BR> <BR>Finally,
    on a personal note, let me just say that I find these sweeping generalizations
    about the villainy of the commercial type industry to be not only childish, piteous,
    bizarre, vindictive, and wholly unproductive, but somewhat insulting as well.
    Anyone on this board who has a beef with the practices of a particular company
    is welcome to air their grievances -- professionals consider this a cost of doing
    business. But as a commercial type foundry, which basically means a type designer
    with &#34;Inc&#34; for a last name, I really don&#39;t appreciate being characterized
    by any of the foul and slanderous language used above. <BR> <BR>I am a type designer,
    and I work my butt off trying to create an environment in which I and my colleagues
    can produce the best typefaces we&#39;re capable of creating. Anyone who thinks
    otherwise just doesn&#39;t know me. And anyone who thinks that the &#34;Inc&#34;
    in my name makes me &#34;miserly,&#34; &#34;litigious,&#34; &#34;misguided,&#34;
    &#34;indecent&#34; or &#34;self-righteous&#34; just doesn&#39;t know business.
  created: '2002-04-06 07:02:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Who are &#34;the fascists,&#34; Hrant? <BR> <BR>I&#39;m about as stupid
    as you are curious. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>&#62; the only person to post in this
    thread who was actually a party to this lawsuit <BR> <BR>Correction: The only
    non-anonymous person. Which is highly commendable. <BR> <BR>BTW, the reason for
    the anonymity of others might be tangentially related to: <BR> <BR>&#62; no party
    to this lawsuit is at liberty to disclose the financial terms of the settlement.
    <BR> <BR>But they might have anyway - you know that. <BR> <BR>Also: <BR>It&#39;s
    not just the &#34;financial settlement&#34; that&#39;s at issue, but certain repercussions
    from possible subsequent violations of various clauses in the whole agreement.
    You know what I&#39;m talking about. <BR> <BR>&#62; the villainy of the commercial
    type industry <BR> <BR>That&#39;s the type of thing Apostrophe might say - not
    me. Most type designers, and many type &#34;managers&#34; are good people. Most,
    and many - not all. <BR> <BR>&#62; welcome to air their grievances <BR> <BR>Not
    so easy when the consequences can be a gestapo vendetta campaign! But in the end,
    it backfires - as it did. <BR> <BR>---- <BR> <BR>In any case, I really need to
    offer a clarification, because -as you say- I did generalize too much: <BR> <BR>Some
    of the people involved in this mess are basically good people, and the most they
    can be accused of is allowing their anger to be manipulated by the truly nasty
    fundamentalists. They were essentially swindled - and that&#39;s not really a
    crime. Plus I&#39;m sure they&#39;re smart enough to learn who not to associate
    with from now on. Note, for example, that Adobe and a certain other party were
    previously teamed up in a suit, but in this subsequent action Adobe was smart
    enough to stay away. <BR> <BR>So many lessons, so little time! <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-06 08:02:18'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;&#62; Who are &#34;the fascists,&#34; Hrant?  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;I&#39;m
    about as stupid as you are curious. <BR> <BR>Is &#34;curious&#34; curious? Yes,
    obviously. <BR>Is Hrant therefore being stupid? ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>What? No names
    of facists and no url <BR>to help Hrant save face? Such a pity. '
  created: '2002-04-06 15:49:30'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Hrant, do you walk as crooked as you talk - it must take you a fcuk of a
    long time to get home. <BR> <BR>What&#39;s that thing they say about usenet, everything
    always boils down to &#34;Nazis&#34;? Hrant&#39;s spin on that, the Gestapo. <BR>
    <BR>You are a worm Papazian, no one wants to persue a vendetta against you, but
    you love to make it out to be so - are there people sitting in big cars outside
    your home right now, do you get followed home at night, do you hear mysterious
    noises on the telephone, do things move around your home of their own accord?
    <BR> <BR>If the answer to any of these is yes, then you aren&#39;t the victim
    of a vendetta, or the Typo Gestapo, you just need to see a shrink. '
  created: '2002-04-06 21:14:41'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: ' Can these anonymous posters make any argument that isn&#39;t rooted in name-calling?
    <BR> <BR>David '
  created: '2002-04-06 21:49:26'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' You mean poster--it&#39;s just me. My vocabulary is limited and I can&#39;t
    articulate myself beyond profanities and playground name calling. <BR> <BR>And
    besides I&#39;m good at it. '
  created: '2002-04-06 23:07:38'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;Also: It&#39;s not just the &#34;financial settlement&#34; that&#39;s
    at issue, <BR>&#62;but certain repercussions from possible subsequent violations
    of <BR>&#62;various clauses in the whole agreement. You know what I&#39;m talking
    <BR>&#62;about. <BR> <BR>What are you talking about? What subsequent violations?
    What certain repercussions? Please, share it with the group. You are under no
    restrictions here. <BR> <BR>&#62;That&#39;s the type of thing Apostrophe might
    say - not me. <BR> <BR>Then why did you say &#40;post&#41; it? <BR> <BR>&#62;Some
    of the people involved in this mess are basically good <BR>&#62;people, <BR> <BR>Do
    you really know these people? How do you know if they&#39;re good or bad? <BR>
    <BR>&#62;anger to be manipulated by the truly nasty fundamentalists. <BR> <BR>Who
    are these &#34;truly nasty fundamentalists&#34;? <BR> <BR>&#62;were essentially
    swindled - and that&#39;s not really a crime. Plus <BR>&#62;I&#39;m sure they&#39;re
    smart enough to learn who not to associate with <BR>&#62;from now on. Note, for
    example, that Adobe and a certain other <BR>&#62;party were previously teamed
    up in a suit, but in this subsequent <BR>&#62;action Adobe was smart enough to
    stay away. <BR> <BR>Bold statements...but why do you feel the need to be so obtuse?
    Let&#39;s name some names here. If you are going to throw out insults and acusations
    like that, at least have the courtesy to be specific. Who are the good people?
    Who are the bad? Do you know these people well enough to make these judgements?
    Do you know the whole situation on which you are commenting? Are you sure your
    &#34;sources&#34; have given you all of the facts? All I&#39;m saying is that
    you are throwing around some pretty heavy insults about people about whom you
    know very little. '
  created: '2002-04-07 07:52:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; You are under no restrictions here. <BR> <BR>Yes I am. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Then why did you say &#40;post&#41; it? <BR> <BR>I didn&#39;t say anything remotely
    close to &#34;the commercial type industry is villaneous&#34;. Because I don&#39;t
    believe that. My complaint is with a certain minority, people who are poisoning
    and polarizing the field. <BR> <BR>&#62; How do you know if they&#39;re good or
    bad? <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t &#34;know&#34; it, I feel it. Just like you do! <BR>
    <BR>It&#39;s basically the normal way people make their decisions about others
    - personal character judgment - but we each have our variations - which we need
    to mutually tolerate. Example: I talked to Rodrigo Cavazos for a few minutes at
    TypeCon98, and I could feel his goodness. I can&#39;t point to what I saw in his
    eyes, or what I heard in the timber of his voice, but I know what I feel. But
    also, I listen to who&#39;s saying what - and analyze what they really mean in
    the context of where they&#39;re coming from. I peel the layers, and look as deep
    as I can, while trying to peel my &#42;own&#42; layers which might interfere with
    a good evaluation. When I like or dislike somebody, I ask myself: why do I feel
    this way? And sometimes I realize that a psychological issue on my end is causing
    me to judge that person unfairly. So I correct it - or at least try to. <BR> <BR>But
    I&#39;d be an idiot to claim that I&#39;m clairvoyant - I make judgment mistakes
    all the time - every human does. But at a given moment I believe what I believe,
    and I act on it. If I&#39;m less tentative than most people, and that makes certain
    poeple uncomfortable, &#42;they&#42; need to deal with it. <BR> <BR>&#62; Do you
    know the whole situation on which you are commenting? Are you sure your &#34;sources&#34;
    have given you all of the facts? <BR> <BR>I know &#42;enough&#42; of it, about
    certain entities - which I cannot allow myself to name - but is it really necessary
    anyway? People who I don&#39;t have enough &#34;information&#34; about &#40;like
    you&#41; I tend to give the benefit of the doubt. And when they come out like
    you did and openly ask rational questions with good poise and self-control, then
    I start to think better of them. <BR> <BR>Sources? My best source is myself -
    other sources I always trust less than 50%. But I&#39;m really not extrapolating
    very much. Trust me, I don&#39;t enjoy knowing what I know - but I&#39;m very
    bad at looking the other way. Maybe I have a sick attraction to conflict, or maybe
    I can remain lucid under much greater &#34;conflict-pressure&#34; than most people,
    or a combination. <BR> <BR>I can only hope that you believe me when I say that
    certain zealots in this industry are lashing out and victimizing people left and
    right, including people they should not alienate, including people who are still
    on their side but remain oblivious to their destructive fundamentalism. Why do
    they not see it? Maybe because it would hurt too much. <BR> <BR>But whether you
    believe me or not is a non-issue for me - I&#39;m not a politician looking for
    votes. I have no agenda. I am doing this because it&#39;s the right thing to do
    at this instant. Anybody who really knows me will tell you that I don&#39;t plan
    ahead more than a couple of meals. Which doesn&#39;t mean I&#39;m reckless, at
    a given moment. <BR> <BR>&#62; you are throwing around some pretty heavy insults
    <BR> <BR>The insults are commensurate with their actions. <BR>When people make
    mistakes, they suffer the consequences. I didn&#39;t make up that law, I&#39;m
    just part of the equation. The path to happiness is through self-improvement,
    not the punishment of others - and I&#39;m enabling the communication &#40;external
    and internal&#41; necessary to the realization of this fact. <BR> <BR>I think
    some people have a serious problem with me for a very simple reason: I am bad
    for business. Suffice it to say that I&#39;m not exactly the biggest fan of capitalism...
    But in the end I am not the problem. Just like you, I am part of the solution.
    <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-07 09:07:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' You spin - I am gravity. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-07 15:39:32'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;I think some people have a serious problem with me for a very simple
    reason: I am bad for business. <BR> <BR>Every thief is. Big or small, major or
    minor. <BR> <BR>John D. Berry concludes his recent piece on the legal case by
    saying, <BR>&#34;And pay for the fonts you use. For type designers, that&#39;s
    the bottom line.&#34; '
  created: '2002-04-07 15:39:32'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: Hrant, you haven&#39;t really answered any of Rich&#39;s questions. <BR> <BR>This
    cloak-and-dagger business of &#34;certain parties&#34; is making the rest of us
    feel bad; this whole thread smacks of McCarthyism. Why don&#39;t you just speak
    your mind?
  created: '2002-04-07 16:47:08'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' David, there&#39;s more than one anonymous poster here, and the &#34;anonbackagain&#34;
    wasn&#39;t me. <BR> <BR>Papazian wants to think he is the victim of a vendetta,
    that the Gestapo are out to get him. I think it&#39;s clear that these are the
    ravings of a lunatic - there&#39;s no name-calling any more so than there is in
    Papazian&#39;s use of such terms in the first place. <BR> <BR>He wants to disperse
    the specific accusations against him by making ever grander and non-specific accusations
    against unnamed others. I think you can perfectly well understand Jonathan&#39;s
    statements, Papazian wants to splash mud everywhere, and some people are going
    to rightly ask &#34;why are you splashing me?&#34; '
  created: '2002-04-07 18:30:33'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Jonathan: <BR>&#62; the only person to post in this thread who  <BR>&#62;
    was actually a party to this lawsuit  <BR> <BR>Papazian: <BR>&#62;Correction:
    The only non-anonymous person.  <BR>&#62;Which is highly commendable. <BR> <BR>Hrant,
    this is just wishful thinking on your part, you have no evidence of this either
    way, you&#39;re just trying to pad out your conspiracy theory. At best you have
    speculation that there were other poster involved in this lawsuit and this thread,
    you have no evidence to back it up at all. <BR> <BR>As one of the anonymous posters,
    and knowing who one of the others is, my &#42;knowledge&#42; says you&#39;re wrong
    &#40;and no, that doesn&#39;t mean there&#39;s a conspiracy of anonymous posters
    either, though you can make it out that way if you like&#41;. '
  created: '2002-04-07 18:38:43'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' The thing from another planet: <BR>&#62;I think some people have a serious
    problem with  <BR>&#62;me for a very simple reason: I am bad for <BR>&#62;business.
    Suffice it to say that I&#39;m not  <BR>&#62;exactly the biggest fan of capitalism...  <BR>&#62;But
    in the end I am not the problem. Just  <BR>&#62;like you, I am part of the solution.
    <BR> <BR>And Hrant came down from the mountain with the word of god, thou shalt
    listen to me, in my gobbledegook speak, as no one can disclaim what I say. <BR>
    <BR>Ask yourselves some questions: <BR> <BR>Who really cares about Hrant Papazian&#39;s
    rantings to fear for their own businesses? <BR> <BR>Who is Hrant Papazian in the
    grand scheme of things anyway? <BR> <BR>Who outside of a few lists and boards
    like this &#40;which are of little consequence outside their instant in time&#41;
    knows or cares what he has to say? <BR> <BR>Who appointed him as our all-knowing
    saviour? <BR> <BR>Why does he speak in riddles, never saying anything straight
    out, but at the same time claiming to be a straight shooter? <BR> <BR>Ask yourself,
    if you had a secret, that couldn&#39;t be said, would you choose Hrant Papazian
    as the guardian of that secret &#40;which is what he appears to be claiming&#41;?
    <BR> <BR>All I see here is huff and puff trying to cover his own failings and
    shift the focus/blame onto someone else. <BR> <BR>Papazian: font thief. <BR> <BR>Papazian:
    dared the designer of that font to do something about it. <BR> <BR>Papazian: ignored
    invoices and letters from that foundry asking him to pay for that font. <BR> <BR>Papazian:
    had to have debt collectors sent out after him to collect the money he owed, and
    had to pay the fees of the debt collectors. <BR> <BR>Papazian: bitter and twisted
    egomaniac who is now embarking on a vendetta against that same foundry. '
  created: '2002-04-07 18:59:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' You spin - I am gravity. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-07 19:05:53'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: ' Can we boil this issue down for a second? Perhaps I need some clarification,
    or there&#39;s something I&#39;m missing. <BR> <BR>A group of type foundries sought
    to prosecute an individual who was stealing their work and illegally distributing
    it, thereby damaging the foundries&#39; livelihoods. <BR> <BR>How could anyone
    who frequents this board possibly object to this? <BR> <BR>Dare I say that anyone
    who would take the side of the defendant &#40;&#39;&#41; in this case is not welcome
    here. '
  created: '2002-04-07 19:49:34'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: 'Hrant, your accusations are offensive to us all, involved in the case or
    not. <BR> <BR>If you aren&#39;t willing to back up your generalizations and broad-sweeping
    accusations with tangible facts and details, perhaps you should save your breath
    until you are able to do so. <BR> <BR><B>A note to the lurkers of this thread,
    of which I know there are many:</B>  <BR>Although he is the most prolific poster
    as of date, the viewpoints that Hrant presents are not necessarily shared by Typophile,
    especially in regard to this thread. It is in the spirit of open conversation
    that we have chosen to let users post freely and when desired, anonymously.  <BR>
    <BR>Typophile is a product of the community that it serves, and your feedback
    is always welcome. Email me directly at: <A HREF="mailto:benson@typophile.com">benson@typophile.com</A>'
  created: '2002-04-07 20:03:53'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Jared, I think you hit the nail on the head, Papazian does seem to be proposing
    that the foundries concerned should not have persued this case through legal means.
    What does he want them to do instead? <BR> <BR>He also seems to want to drag other
    type vendors into this, as weight behind his claims, stating that they did not
    take part in the suit - specifically Adobe. <BR> <BR>His point here seems to be
    that because Adobe did not take part then the suit was without merit. <BR> <BR>Is
    there any logic to this claim? It doesn&#39;t appear so, without knowing why Adobe
    didn&#39;t take part. <BR> <BR>One thing is fairly evident though. My experience
    of Adobe&#39;s legal efforts is that they have always been pursued against commercial
    piracy. I don&#39;t know of any instances where they have pursued cases against
    individuals distributing their intellectual property for no &#40;direct&#41; financial
    gain. <BR> <BR>Perhaps this is corporate policy at Adobe, and would explain why
    they took no part in this case. <BR> <BR>In any event, I believe it&#39;s true
    to say that this case united a greater number of foundries in one case than has
    ever been the case before - we should take that as testimony as to the integrity
    with which that case was pursued. <BR> <BR>Papazian&#39;s mud slinging sticks
    to all the plaintiffs in this case &#40;see the list of designers cited at the
    URL given at the top of this page&#41; - yet he offers no evidence to back up
    his accusations, and no remedy to what he &#40;alone&#41; sees as wrong-doing. '
  created: '2002-04-07 20:42:09'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62; You are under no restrictions here. <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;Yes I am. <BR>
    <BR>Uhh...what restrictions? <BR> <BR>&#62;complaint is with a certain minority,
    people who are <BR>&#62;poisoning and polarizing the field. <BR> <BR>Okay. I&#39;ll
    ask again. Who are these people that are poisoning and polarizing the field. Please
    share with us...I am sure we would all like to know so we can all benefit from
    your vast wisdom and steer clear of their poisonous and polarizing ways. <BR>&#62;
    <BR>&#62;&#62; How do you know if they&#39;re good or bad? <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;I
    don&#39;t &#34;know&#34; it, I feel it. Just like you do! <BR> <BR>How do you
    presume to know how I make judgements about people? I certainly don&#39;t make
    these bold pronouncements about people I&#39;ve never met.  <BR> <BR>&#62;But
    I&#39;d be an idiot to claim that I&#39;m clairvoyant - I make <BR>&#62;judgment
    mistakes all the time - every human does. <BR> <BR>I think you are making judgement
    mistakes here. You are using this soapbox to drag the names of some really good
    people through the mud. I think you really need to stop and think about what you
    are saying. <BR> <BR>&#62;I know &#42;enough&#42; of it, about certain entities
    - which I <BR>&#62;cannot allow myself to name - but is it really necessary <BR>&#62;anyway?  <BR>
    <BR>Yeah...it really is necessary if you are going to continue to make your disparaging
    statements. <BR> <BR>&#62;Sources? My best source is myself - other sources I
    always <BR>&#62;trust less than 50%. But I&#39;m really not extrapolating very
    <BR>&#62;much. Trust me, I don&#39;t enjoy knowing what I know - but I&#39;m <BR>&#62;very
    bad at looking the other way.  <BR> <BR>Did anybody ask you to look the other
    way? We want more! What specifically do you know? Who are these miserable people
    to whom you keep referring? You are not backing up your statements with specifics.
    When it comes to that, your conversations degrade into philosophical discussions  <BR>
    <BR>&#62;&#62; you are throwing around some pretty heavy insults <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;The
    insults are commensurate with their actions. When people <BR>&#62;make mistakes,
    they suffer the consequences.  <BR> <BR>What mistakes. What people made these
    mistakes? What are the consequences? <BR> <BR>&#62;But in <BR>&#62;the end I am
    not the problem. Just like you, I am part of <BR>&#62;the solution. <BR> <BR>Who
    is the problem? Why are you part of the solution? Please tell me so I can bask
    in the glory of being part of the solution to this problem. <BR> <BR>How do you
    know I&#39;m part of the solution? Do you know me? Do you know my business? I
    might be a complete SOB. The folks you are criticizing might be perfectly wonderful,
    honest and upstanding people. You just don&#39;t know. <BR> <BR>Do you see what
    you are doing? You are making uneducated and unsubstantiated judgements of people
    about whom you know very little. You might know actions, but you do not know the
    context in which they were taken. '
  created: '2002-04-07 21:12:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; How could anyone who frequents this board possibly object to this?
    <BR> <BR>Jared, if you were listening you would have heard me condemn Apostrophe&#39;s
    actions - I always have. <BR> <BR>Please don&#39;t fall into the &#34;you&#39;re
    either with us or against us&#34; fanaticism, which is exactly what I&#39;m complaining
    about. You and others are aligning yourselves with these covert, rabid name-callers,
    whether you realize it, want it, or not. <BR> <BR>The bottom line is that if we&#39;re
    going to reduce piracy, we have to be &#42;stronger&#42; and &#42;smarter&#42;
    than them. Alienating people who are essentially on your side but simply don&#39;t
    agree with you 1000% backfires - as it is doing now. Just because -as an example-
    I don&#39;t share some people&#39;s deluded dependence on the letter of the law
    doesn&#39;t mean we can&#39;t work together for a more harmonious co-existence.
    It certainly doesn&#39;t mean you come hunting after &#42;me&#42;! And diverting
    this discussion by putting a spin on an over-blown &#40;not to mention &#42;resolved&#42;&#41;
    incident from almost two years ago does not serve type design - it only serves
    to distract us from the failure at hand. <BR> <BR>I am caught in the middle of
    people who would end up turning the world into a bitter, barren landscape. I did
    not choose this confrontation - they brought it upon us. Some of my opponents
    here simply do not realize what&#39;s happening &#40;yet&#41; - and those people
    I cannot hold too liable. But some of them need to be shunned - until they can
    abandon their manipulative fundamentalism. <BR> <BR>Do no get caught up in this
    polarization. Remain a resonable human being, and you&#39;ll come out fine. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; If you aren&#39;t willing to back up your .... <BR> <BR>Human opinion
    is not a US court of law. <BR>I cannot give out the type of information you seem
    to want - for very good reasons. If this makes you discredit my views completely,
    then I can only feel sorry for your absolutism - but nonetheless ask you again
    for a little bit of your trust. The conclusions I&#39;ve arrived are not set in
    stone - but neither are they the result of delusion - my thoughts and feelings
    on this have been forming for a while now. BTW, I am willing to share them in
    much greater detail in person - any time. Like ATypI&#39;s upcoming conference
    in Rome, if you like. I am sorry if my obtuseness here is frustrating - but think
    what it&#39;s doing to me! <BR> <BR>And note this: I would indeed have stayed
    quiet if it were not for that original attempt at putting a spin on what really
    happened: &#34;Though I don&#39;t think he&#39;ll be having much to say.&#34;
    If we don&#39;t realize and admit that Apostrophe is very much alive and kicking,
    in fact fighting &#42;back&#42; now, then we&#39;re shortchanging our long-term
    prospects. Why? <BR> <BR>I have no vendetta - I am simply trying to pull down
    the unethical distortions that are being aired right in front of my eyes! I am
    slinging no mud - they are sitting in mud of their own doing - I have simply erected
    a roadsign alerting motorists. Now, some of the people are sitting in mud because
    they have mistakenly associated with unethical fanatics - they need to get up,
    and wash off. <BR> <BR>My actions here are actually a reaction to their misleading
    spin-doctoring. This is a key point: I am not conducting some crusade, but simply
    trying to balance a wrong which I have seen aired before my eyes. I am ready to
    stop, as long as no new spins are introduced. <BR> <BR>BTW, Jared, how come I
    can&#39;t voice my opinion freely without necessarily giving out &#34;hard evidence&#34;,
    but anonymous people can conduct a vile, profane defamation campaign against me
    with no resistance? I think you are being unfair. <BR> <BR>So go ahead you people,
    have the last word, throw more insults, whatever - and I&#39;ll stay quiet. Just
    please don&#39;t introduce new spins - I have great difficulty allowing myself
    to let it slide. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-07 21:56:29'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Hrant, what is this great &#34;wrong&#34;? Just spell it out! <BR> <BR>&#62;Just
    because -as an example- I don&#39;t share  <BR>&#62;some people&#39;s deluded
    dependence on the letter  <BR>&#62;of the law doesn&#39;t mean we can&#39;t work
    together  <BR>&#62;for a more harmonious co-existence. <BR> <BR>What can we do
    except rely on the law? <BR> <BR>What are you doing to expediate &#34;harmonious
    co-existence&#34;? <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t keep pointing the finger at others, if you
    have some input, then give it. All the spin here is your&#39;s there&#39;s no
    facts to back it up. <BR> <BR>You want to complain about people&#39;s attacks
    on your personal morals as being unjustified, and with no evidence given - but
    you already admitted that these allegations of your piracy were true!? '
  created: '2002-04-07 22:16:16'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' &#62;And diverting this discussion by putting a spin on an over-blown &#40;not
    to mention &#42;resolved&#42;&#41; incident  <BR>&#62;from almost two years ago
    does not serve type design  <BR> <BR>Exactly how resolved? Did you ever issue
    an apology in public or in private? If so, was the apology ever seen, noted and
    accepted? Did you ever ask the victims of your piracy to forgive you? <BR> <BR>Did
    it ever occur to you that the incident may have been viewed differently by other
    parties? Why do you now try to spin it? Lastly, what would ever lead you to believe
    that stealing is not a form of swindling or that swindling is not a form of theft? '
  created: '2002-04-08 11:00:16'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: 'Hrant has asked me to intervene on his behalf, since he feels that he&#39;s
    being unfairly victimized by anonymous assailants. <BR> <BR>I think it&#39;s unfortunate
    to let legitimate discourse descend into personal attacks, but that goes for everyone.
    I&#39;m disappointed by the anonymous posters here who feel the need to assail
    Hrant with foul language, but I&#39;m equally irritated that Hrant has continued
    to impugn the eleven plaintiffs in &#34;Emigre at al&#34; without ever lodging
    a specific grievance against any of us. Both Rich Roat and I have prompted you
    to speak your mind, Hrant, which you&#39;ve refused to do. I think this is irresponsible
    of you, and it makes it hard for everyone to take your arguments seriously. <BR>
    <BR>Since Hrant has given me permission to respond to his e-mail in public, here
    are my thoughts on the subject. Hrant wrote: <BR> <BR><I>&#62;   To me you are
    -knowingly on not- giving backing to these <BR>&#62;   &#34;infants&#34;. I know
    you don&#39;t agree with their tactics, and <BR>&#62;   that&#39;s part of the
    reason I think it might be your place <BR>&#62;   to strike a note of moderation.
    Otherwise, they get worse <BR>&#62;   and worse, for example in victimizing anybody
    who dares to <BR>&#62;   say something even tangentially nice about me or my work.
    <BR>&#62;   That&#39;s the pattern - trust me, I&#39;ve had the &#34;pleasure&#34;
    <BR>&#62;   of having seen it many times.</I> <BR> <BR>&#34;Knowingly or not&#34;
    is a clever way of simultaneously absolving you of the burden of proof, and making
    it impossible for me to defend myself against this accusation. How would you like
    it if someone posted &#34;Hrant is -- knowingly or not -- promoting domestic violence?&#34;
    <BR> <BR>At best this is sophistry, at worst it&#39;s slander. You should be happy
    that this recent court case has tempered my taste for litigation, or you might
    find yourself on the business end of a defamation suit. <BR> <BR>This is Jared
    and Joe&#39;s board, so they make the rules, but I&#39;d like to suggest the following
    guidelines: <BR> <BR>   1. <B>Attack the post, not the poster.</B> There are apparently
    ancient vendettas at work here; I find them tiresome and irrelevant. If you&#39;re
    not here to talk about typography, you should leave. <BR> <BR>   2. <B>Back up
    your arguments.</B> Even if your contributions are as juvenile as &#34;Helvetica
    sucks,&#34; be prepared to be challenged by your peers. And if you&#39;re wading
    into more sensitive waters, say, maligning the professional practices of a contributor
    to this site, you&#39;d better have the goods to support your accusations. <BR>
    <BR>   3. <B>Don&#39;t rely on anonymity.</B> Aside from being in poor taste,
    it&#39;s dumb. I imagine that if push came to shove, Jared and Joe would honor
    a subpoena for Typophile&#39;s IP records, which are delightfully verbose. Please
    keep this in mind as you flame away.'
  created: '2002-04-08 17:42:28'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: ' Hear hear. Thank you, Jonathan, for one of the very few bright spots of
    reason in this discussion. <BR> <BR>David '
  created: '2002-04-08 20:57:02'
date: '2002-04-04 00:31:27'
title: Lawsuit
...
