---
author:
  name: andreas_climent
body: Hey, figured I&#39;ll introduce myself first. My name is Andreas, 16 years old,
  live in Malm
comments:
- author:
    name: ideagent
    picture: 110166
  body: Hello Andreas, <BR> <BR>It makes me happy to see people your age interested
    in font design! Is this done for a school project or just for fun? <BR> <BR>Your
    font is hard to critique because I&#39;m not sure what you are trying to accomplish
    with it. There are a lot of geometric sans out there, and I have difficulty seeing
    what makes yours unique. The cap &#34;S&#34; is probably the most interesting
    letter simply because of its irregularities. Perhaps you could shake up the other
    characters as well?  <BR> <BR>Sometimes it helps to &#34;file&#34; a font and
    begin with a new one. Then you can return to the old one with a different perspective.
    <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t abandon it though. You just need to figure out what makes it
    unique. <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-08-19 23:18:16'
- author:
    name: andreas_climent
  body: This is a personal little project, just for fun. A friend of mine called Peter
    started studying typography at school and as soon as he told me about all the
    serif&#39;s, ligatures and so on I was hooked. <BR> <BR>At first i didn&#39;t
    really have any goals with magma more than to design my own first typeface and
    make it look good. It&#39;s really entertaining tho, so I&#39;ll keep developing
    typefaces. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll try to make it a bit more unique.
  created: '2003-08-20 07:00:31'
date: '2003-08-16 22:41:13'
title: Magma Simplica
...
