---
author:
  name: kentlew
  picture: 110411
body: '[<i>This announcement probably belongs in News &amp; Events or on typographi.ca.
  But N&amp;E doesn&#39;t allow for discussion &#40;which I&#39;m hoping there might
  be&#41; and I never took Stephen up on his offer to make me a contributor to typographi.ca.
  Oh well.</i>] <BR> <BR>This is short notice, but for those within driving distance
  of the Boston area: <BR> <BR> <b>Matthew Carter</b> will be speaking about digital
  <b>Monticello</b> at the <b>Museum of Printing</b> in North Andover, Massachusetts
  this <b>Wednesday, August 20, at 7:00 p.m.</b> <BR> <BR>North Andover is just a
  little north of Boston off I-495, not far. You can find directions at the Museum&#39;s
  website: <a href="http://www.museumofprinting.com" target="_blank"> www.museumofprinting.com</a>.
  <BR> <BR>This talk is an encore presentation of the one Matthew gave at the Grolier
  Club in NYC in February. <BR> <BR>Also, for those who have been wondering: the Monticello
  fonts are now available for license. You can get them from either Linotype or directly
  from Carter &amp; Cone. While the Linotype fonts are a little more readily available
  &#40;web download&#41; and slightly less expensive individually, I recommend springing
  a little more for the full CC versions. In addition to directly supporting the designer,
  you can get additional fonts with the oldstyle figures in place &#40;instead of
  having to constantly switch to the SC font to get them&#41; and the CC fonts have
  the ff-ligatures &#40;and an fj ligature&#41;.  <BR> <BR>The &#34;full Monti&#34;
  &#40;as Matthew calls it&#41; is $140 for 6 fonts. &#40;The Linotype versions are
  $96 for 4 fonts.&#41; Those interested in licensing the CC fonts can contact Cherie
  Cone at <a href="mailto:cecone@earthlink.net">cecone@earthlink.net</a>. <BR> <BR>--
  Kent. <BR> <BR>'
date: '2003-08-18 12:51:15'
title: Monticello in Massachusetts
...
